# Luke

## INTRODUCTION TO THE GOSPEL ACCORDING TO LUKE

### Author

1. Luke is the earthly author of this book.

2. Luke gives the greatest amount of information concerning its beginning. (1:1-4)

3. This book is addressed to a man named Theophilus. (1:3)

a. Means “Lover of God” or “Loved of God”.

b. He was probably a man of upper class because the title “Most Excellent” was generally applied only to officials or to members of the aristocracy.

4. The author, Luke, is referred to by name three times only.

a. Col. 4:14

b. Philemon 1:24

c. II Tim. 4:11

5. We see he is a physician, one of Paul's fellow laborers, and that he was with Paul during his last imprisonment.

6. Most feel Luke was a Greek speaking Gentile by birth who had received a good education and who possessed considerable intellectual ability.

7. Luke was a medical doctor.

8. Luke also wrote the book of Acts.

Luke was written before Matthew and Mark. Luke was written probably 1 year before Matthew.

a. Acts 1:1

### The audience

A. Luke was written for the Greeks.

C. The Greeks were different from the Jews and Romans.

1. Had a wider culture

2. Loved beauty

3. Loved rhetoric (the art of using words effectively in speaking or writing)

4. Loved philosophy

5. Very concerned with the physical man

D. Luke, as a well educated Greek and doctor, would be well suited for this task.

## The Presentation

A. Luke presents Jesus as the ideal or perfect man.

1. Luke has the most about the humanity of Jesus.

a. Has the most about Mary.

b. Only Luke tells of the visit of the shepherds.

c. Only Luke tells of Jesus’ visit to the temple when He was a youth.

d. He gives us the fullest account of His birth.

Luke begins his account a great deal further in the past than the other Synoptic Gospels.

e. We learn about His childhood.

(1) Jesus developed naturally Luke 2:40,52

(2) As a child, He was obedient to Joseph and Mary. Luke 2:51

f. No record of unhealthy or supernatural growth.

2. We see Him kneeling in prayer, and that He knew agony and suffering.

3. Five out of six miracles were miracles of healing.

a. Only Luke tells of the healing of Malchus’ ear. Luke 22:51

B. We can see Luke is also for the outcast on the earth.

1. Only Luke tells us of

a. The good Samaritan Luke 10:30

b. The publican Luke 18:13

c. The prodigal son Luke 15:11-24

d. Zacchaeus Luke 19:2

C. Luke is the writer that has much to say about womanhood.

1. The most about Mary and Elisabeth.

a. Chapters 1 and 2

2. His regard for women and children are seen in

a. Luke 7:46 - the woman annointed His feet

b. Luke 8:42 - the woman with the issue of blood and the ruler's daughter

c. Luke 9:38-42 - delivers the child of a woman

d. Luke 10:38-42 - Martha and Mary rebuked with compassion

e. Luke 23:27,28 - daughters of Jerusalem

D. We see Jesus presented as the perfect man.

1. Only Luke tells us of

a. Luke 19:41

(1) When our Lord beheld the city of Jerusalem and wept over it.

b. Luke 22:44

(1) When He sweat as it were great drops of blood.

c. Luke 23:39-43

(1) When He showed mercy to the dying thief on the cross.

d. Luke 24:13-15

(1) When He walked with the two to Emmaus.

e. Luke 24:50

(1) When He led His disciples out as far as Bethany and as He lifted up His hands and blessed them, He was parted from them.

E. We also see Jesus as the perfect man in the introduction.

1. John fits his theme -

a. “In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.” John 1:1

2. Luke, as a simple story touching men -

a. “There was in the days of Herod, the king of Judea, a certain priest named Zechariah...” Luke 1:5

b. “And it came to pass in those days, that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus, that all the world should be taxed.” Luke 2:1

(1) Note: Micah said that Bethlehem was to be the birthplace of Jesus. Micah 5:2-5

Mary lived in Nazareth, 100 miles away. Imperial Rome brought forth the decree to compel Mary and Joseph to go to Bethlehem just as the child was born. God named the earthly rulers to do His biding.

c. We do not find the kings of the East asking for one “who is born a king”.

d. In the angels message to the watching shepherds, we see “Behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior.” Luke 2:10-12

NOT a king.

F. We see the perfect man presented in the genealogy.

1. Matthew had the genealogy of a king.

a. We find Joseph was begotten by Jacob.

2. Luke has the genealogy of a perfect man.

a. We see Joseph as the son of Heli.

He could not be the son of two men, so it is supposed that Joseph was His son-in-law and Heli was Mary's father.

3. Matthew started from Abraham and came down to Joseph.

4. Luke starts from Joseph and goes up to Adam and God.

a. Traced through Adam because he is the father of all humanity. 

How do we attain to this perfect man? There is only one way, Adam was the son of God, we must become the sons of God.

G. The Key Verse -

1. Luke 19:10
“For the son of man is come to seek and to save that which is lost.”

H. The Key Word -

1. Compassion

a. Luke 17:13

(1) Jesus

b. Luke 10:33

(1) The Good Samaritan

c. Luke 15:20

(1) The prodigal son’s father

## Preparation

A. After the genealogy, Luke tells of the preparation of Jesus.

1. “Jesus being full of the Holy Ghost...was led by the Spirit into the wilderness,” Luke 4:1

2. He was tried and proven.

a. The more you crush a rose, the more it’s fragrance is recognized and released.

So the more the devil assaulted Christ, the more His perfection was revealed.

To be like Jesus!

B. Luke is the only one who tells us that Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit into Galilee (4:14), showing the devil had failed in breaking the fellowship of the Son of man on earth with His Father in Heaven.

## Ministry

A. His ministry included His home town.

1. Went into Galilee

a. Luke 4:14

2. Then into Nazareth

a. Luke 4:16

3. Our ministry includes at home.

a. He is our example, the perfect man.

4. His mission can be seen in the verses He read in the temple.

a. Luke 4:18,19

b. Commissioned, sent of God, and divinely qualified.

## Disciples Commissioned

A. Luke 9

1. Called together

2. Gave them power and authority over all devils and to cure diseases

3. Sent them to preach the kingdom and to heal the sick

4. Gave specific instructions

B. Luke 10

1. “After these things the Lord appointed other seventy also”

2. “Sent them two by two before His face into every city and place, whither He Himself would come.”

a. We must go where He says to go, where He will be.

## Teaching and Instruction

A. Luke 10 through 21 mostly the words of Jesus.

B. “And He said unto them”

1. Matthew = 3 times

2. Mark = 19 times

3. Luke = 34 times

C. The perfect man says what Jesus says.

1. “And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb, and by the word of their testimony; and they loved not their lives unto death.” Rev. 12:10

2. “And Jesus answered him, saying, it is written” Luke 4:4

3. “And Jesus answered and said unto him, Get thee behind me, Satan: for it is written” Luke 4:8

4. “And Jesus answering said unto him, it is said” Luke 4:12

## Mount of Olives

A. Luke 22

1. Told His disciples to pray and withdrew Himself and prayed.

a. “Not My will, but will, be done.”
Every Christian will face times in his life that he must pray “not my will”

2. “An angel appeared unto Him from heaven strengthening Him.”

3. “Being in agony, He prayed more earnestly”

4. “His sweat was as it were great drops of blood falling down to the ground”

5. His disciples were sleeping for sorrow.

6. Soldiers came and Judas betrayed Him with a kiss.

## His Crucifixion

A. Only Luke tells of Jesus looking on Peter so that he went out and wept bitterly.

1. The ultimate betrayal - the perfect man.

B. Only Luke gives the name Calvary, which is the Gentile name for Golgotha.

C. The superscription is different in each Gospel.

1. Matt 27:37 - set up over His head His accusation written, “THIS IS JESUS THE KING OF THE JEWS.”

a. Matthew trying to show that Jesus is the Messiah to the end.

2. Mark 15:26 - His accusation was written over, “THE KING OF THE JEWS”

a. A servant’s title is brief.

3. Luke 23:37 - was written over Him in letters of Greek, and Latin, and Hebrew,... (no accusation) “THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS”

a. A perfect man leaves no doubt as to who He is.

D. Luke omits the verses “My God, My God, why hast Thou forsaken me?”

1. Matthew 27:46

2. Mark 15:34

a. A perfect man has God with Him always.

E. Only Luke 23:34 records His last prayer,

1. “Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do”

a. A perfect man forgives.

F. Differences in the reactions of the people.

1. Matt 27:54 records - “Truly this was the Son of God”

a. Reaching the Jews as the Messiah.

2. Mark 15:39 records - “Truly this man was the Son of God”

a. Showing the humanity of our Lord.

3. Luke 23:47 records - “Certainly this was a righteous man”

a. Seeing His perfection.

G. Only Luke tells of the road to Emmaus