##	52	###	Bible Introduction study questions 2##	53	###	______________ is the one main theme of the Bible.##	54	###	<strong>Redemption</strong> is the one main theme of the Bible.##	55	###	Answer true or false. True historical record and archeological record are in complete agreement with the Bible.##	56	###	TRUE##	57	###	What is the purpose of the Bible?##	58	###	To reveal God's will to man##	59	###	To condemn man##	60	###	To teach science##	61	###	To reveal history##	62	###	To reveal God's will to man##	63	###	Each Testament is composed of three main divisions: _____________&#44;  ________________&#44; and _________________.##	64	###	Each Testament is composed of three main divisions: <strong>history</strong>&#44; <strong>instruction</strong>&#44; and <strong>prophecy</strong>.##	65	###	What does the word <em>inspiration</em> mean?##	66	###	Redemption##	67	###	Jesus saves##	68	###	God breathed##	69	###	Authority##	70	###	God breathed##	71	###	2 Peter 1:21—For the prophecy came not in old time by the ________  ______  ________: but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the ________  _______.##	72	###	2 Peter 1:21—For the prophecy came not in old time by the <strong>will of man</strong>: but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the <strong>Holy Ghost</strong>.##	73	###	Answer true or false. Only parts of the Bible are inspired by God.##	74	###	FALSE##	75	###	Approximately how many men wrote the Bible?##	76	###	5##	77	###	40##	78	###	100##	79	###	15##	80	###	40##	81	###	Answer true or false. We know the Bible is inspired because it produces spiritual growth.##	82	###	TRUE##	83	###	Answer true or false. Counsel and direction for every situation of life can be found in the Word of God.##	84	###	TRUE##	85	###	Bible Introduction study questions 3##	86	###	What is canonization?##	87	###	The fundamental truths of the Bible arranged in systematic form##	88	###	The art or science of religious discourse or preaching##	89	###	The process of placing writings in the biblical canon##	90	###	The written revelation of God's will to men##	91	###	The process of placing writings in the biblical canon##	92	###	Answer true or false. Man decided by himself which books would be included in the Bible.##	93	###	FALSE##	94	###	Who were the Masorites?##	95	###	Roman political leaders##	96	###	Greek philosophers##	97	###	Babylonian scientists##	98	###	Jewish scribes##	99	###	Jewish scribes##	100	###	To whom did Moses give the Law to keep safe?##	101	###	The carpenters##	102	###	The priests##	103	###	The kings##	104	###	The shepherds##	105	###	The priests##	106	###	Answer true or false. Augustine said that the Greeks were the librarians of the Christian church.##	107	###	FALSE##	108	###	The division of Scripture into chapters was first done by ___________  _____________ of Saint Cher in ___________ AD.##	109	###	The division of Scripture into chapters was first done by Cardinal Hugh of Saint Cher in 1244 AD.##	110	###	What were the first New Testament books to be assembled together?##	111	###	The General Epistles##	112	###	The Gospels##	113	###	The Epistles of Paul##	114	###	The Apocrypha##	115	###	The Epistles of Paul##	116	###	Which book brought together the Gospels and the Epistles of Paul?##	117	###	Hebrews##	118	###	Revelation##	119	###	Acts##	120	###	Jude##	121	###	Acts##	122	###	Answer true or false. A book not written by an apostle that had apostolic approval was considered to be of divine origin.##	123	###	TRUE##	124	###	Answer true or false. The Apocrypha is a part of the canon of the Bible.##	125	###	FALSE