# Biography: Isaiah the Prophet

> Isaiah 1:1 &mdash; The vision of Isaiah the son of Amoz, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah.

## Isaiah, his Name

His name means “The Lord is salvation.”

Isaiah is often called the "Messianic Prophet" as he is best known for prophesying the coming of Jesus Christ to save mankind from sin. There would be many leaders deliverers throughout Israel's history, but Isaiah prophesied of the "Messiah", "The Anointed One." The New Testament title for "Messiah" is "The Christ".

## Family

### Parents

According to the rabbinic literature, Isaiah was a descendant of the royal house of Judah and Tamar (Sotah 10b). He was the son of Amoz (not to be confused with Prophet Amos), who was the brother of King Amaziah of Judah.

## Historical Setting

Isaiah was a contemporary with the prophets Amos, Hosea and Micah.

Tiglath-pileser (King of Assyria) had conquered all of northern Syria by 740 (the date of Uzziah’s death) and forced all small kingdoms, including Israel under Menahem to pay tribute (2 Kings 15:19f) and Judah under Uzziah ("Azariah").

Assyria (Shalmaneser or his successor Sargon II) moved against Israel and after a three year siege, took the capital of Samaria (722/1) and carried the people into captivity

## Wife and Children

Isaiah was married to a prophetess and they had two sons whose names had prophetic meanings.

### Mahershalalhashbaz

meaning “speed the spoil, hasten the booty”

### Shear-Jashub

meaning “a remnant shall return”

### Uzziah

## Ministry

### Timeline

Isaiah’s Judean ministry extended for at least 40 years (740-701):

1. Uzziah’s death 740 B.C. (6:1)

2. Through the reign of Jotham (750-731)

3. Through the reign of Ahaz (735-715)

4. Through the reign of Hezekiah (certainly 701)

5. Possibly through some of the reign of Manasseh [if it was he who assassinated him] (696-642)

### 700 Years Before Christ

Isaiah lived about 700 years before the birth of Jesus Christ. Born in Jerusalem, Israel, he was said to have found his calling as a prophet when he saw a vision in the year of King Uzziah’s death. Isaiah prophesized the coming of the Messiah Jesus Christ.

## Isaiah, the Book

## Isaiah's Death

Jewish tradition says he was killed by being sawn in two by King Manasseh, the son of King Hezekiah. This seems to be alluded to in Hebrews 11:37.

> Hebrews 11:37 &mdash; They were stoned, they were sawn asunder, were tempted, were slain with the sword: they wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins; being destitute, afflicted, tormented;

