# The Consequence of an Unsurrendered Life

TEXT: Luke 16:19-31

> Luke 14:23 &mdash; And the lord said unto the servant, Go out into the highways and hedges, and compel them to come in, that my house may be filled.

## Introduction - DO? Luke 14:11-35

In hearing the teaching of the important doctrine of the GRACE of God and how His grace works, there is a trap of the enemy laid out to trip up the unsurrendered life. The trap goes something like this, "God has done it all already" and "All I have to do is believe" and "Reject any message of works (obedience of faith) as it smells of legalism."

### The Message

Doing the Word of God, is the fruit of a surrendered life.

- **Luke 1** - [John the Baptist] 17 And he shall go before him in the spirit and power of Elias, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just; to make ready a people prepared for the Lord.
- **Luke 2** - 34 And Simeon blessed them, and said unto Mary his mother, Behold, this child is set for the fall and rising again of many in Israel; and for a sign which shall be spoken against; 35 (Yea, a sword shall pierce through thy own soul also,) that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed. [Heb. 12 -- endured the contradiction of sinners.]
- **Luke 3** - v.7 Then said he to the multitude that came forth to be baptized of him, O generation of vipers, who hath warned you to flee from the wrath to come? 8 Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of repentance, 
- **Luke 4** - [led of the Spirit into the wilderness fasted] - man shall not live by bread alone, but by EVERY WORD OF GOD. - Get thee behind me, Satan: for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve.
- **Luke 5** - Why do ye eat and drink with publicans and sinners? 31 ...They that are whole need not a physician; but they that are sick. 32 I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.
- **Luke 6** - wise man and foolish man. "And why call ye me, Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say?" (v. 20-38 Blessed are ... woe to ... give ... love ... be merciful)
- **Luke 7** - 31 ... what are they like? 32 They are like unto children sitting in the marketplace, and calling one to another, and saying, We have piped unto you, and ye have not danced; we have mourned to you, and ye have not wept.
- **Luke 8** - Good Seed and Good Ground
- **Luke 9** - v.56 For the Son of man is not come to destroy men's lives, but to save them. 
- **Luke 10** - v.25 And, behold, a certain lawyer stood up, and tempted him, saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? && v. 29 Who is my neighbor?
- **Luke 11** - v. 52 Woe unto you, lawyers! for ye have taken away the key of knowledge: ye entered not in yourselves, and them that were entering in ye hindered.
- **Luke 12** - v. 19 And I will say to my soul, Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years; take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry.
- **Luke 13** - Strive to enter in at the strait gate: for many, I say unto you, will seek to enter in, and shall not be able.
- **Luke 14** -  A certain man made a great supper, and bade many:
- **Luke 15** -  A certain man had two sons:
- **Luke 16** - the rich man also died, and was buried;
- **Luke 17** - v. 33 Whosoever shall seek to save his life shall lose it; and whosoever shall lose his life shall preserve it.
- **Luke 18** - And a certain ruler asked him, saying, Good Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?
- **Luke 19** - 8 And Zacchaeus stood, and said unto the Lord: Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor; and if I have taken any thing from any man by false accusation, I restore him fourfold. 9 And Jesus said unto him, This day is salvation come to this house, && A certain nobleman went into a far country...occupy till I come
- **Luke 20** - [rejected Christ] "18 Whosoever shall fall upon that stone shall be broken; but on whomsoever it shall fall, it will grind him to powder."
- ** Luke 21 ** [end of time] 34 And take heed to yourselves, lest at any time your hearts be overcharged with surfeiting, and drunkenness, and cares of this life, and so that day come upon you unawares.
- **Luke 22** - "31 And the Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold, SATAN HATH DESIRED TO HAVE YOU, that he may sift you as wheat: 32 But I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not: and when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren."
- **Luke 23** - "have found no fault in this man" give us barrabas .... &&  And he said unto Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom.
- **Luke 24** - "He is risen indeed" ... 47 And that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem.

### The Call

> Luke 14:11-14 &mdash; For whosoever exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. 12 Then said he also to him that bade him, When thou makest a dinner or a supper, call not thy friends, nor thy brethren, neither thy kinsmen, nor thy rich neighbours; lest they also bid thee again, and a recompence be made thee. 13 But when thou makest a feast, call the poor, the maimed, the lame, the blind: 14 And thou shalt be blessed; for they cannot recompense thee: for thou shalt be recompensed at the resurrection of the just.

> Luke 14:15-27 &mdash; 15 And when one of them that SAT AT MEAT WITH HIM him heard these things, he said unto him, Blessed is he that shall EAT BREAD IN THE KINGDOM OF GOD. 16 Then said he unto him, A certain man made a great supper, and bade many: 17 And sent his servant at supper time to say to them that were bidden, Come; for all things are now ready. 18 And they all with one consent began to make excuse. The first said unto him, I have bought a piece of ground, and I must needs go and see it: I pray thee have me excused. 19 And another said, I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I go to prove them: I pray thee have me excused.
20 And another said, I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come. 21 So that servant came, and shewed his lord these things. Then the master of the house being angry said to his servant, Go out quickly into the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in hither the poor, and the maimed, and the halt, and the blind. 22 And the servant said, Lord, it is done as thou hast commanded, and yet there is room. 23 And the lord said unto the servant, Go out into the highways and hedges, and compel them to come in, THAT MY HOUSE MAY BE FILLED. 24 For I say unto you, That none of those men which were bidden shall taste of my supper. 25 And there went great multitudes with him: and he turned, and said unto them, 26 If any man come to me, and hate not his father, and mother, and wife, and children, and brethren, and sisters, yea, and his own life also, he cannot be my disciple. 27 And whosoever doth not bear his cross, and come after me, cannot be my disciple.

Luke 14:34,35 &mdash; Salt is good: but if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it be seasoned? 35 It is neither fit for the land, nor yet for the dunghill; but men cast it out. He that hath ears to hear, let him hear.

- hate your mother? context was those worthy and unworthy of the call. "I hope there are levels in heaven --- priveleged & under".

## I. Hell is a Real Place, v. 23

23 And in hell he lift up his eyes, ...

- 79% of those who believe in God, believe in Hell; 11% believe only Heaven exists; Among those who do believe in heaven and hell, 82% expect to wind up in heaven; 2% expect to end up in hell

- Sheol - Hades - Gehenna - Valley of Hinnom - Tophet - Hell - Lake of Fire - Tartarus - Bottomless Pit

- Hell: conscious eternal punishment

## False Doctrine

### 1. Universalism

All IN THE END are saved. "There is a hell, but its created fo the devil and angels only." "Hell is there, possible no one will go there."

### 2. Inclusivism

Some will go to Hell, only those who have hear the Gospel and rejected, but those who have never heard the gospel will be saved ultimately.

### 3. Annihilationism

"Consciousness extinguished." "No longer exist."" "The Fire that consumes" "Soul Sleep" "feels fair"

Unbelievers will be obliterated, exterminated, DESTROYED.

> Matthew 10:28 &mdash; And fear not them which kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul: but rather fear him which is able to DESTROY both soul and body in hell.

**DESTROY**: apollumi	STRONGS#622	to destroy, destroy utterly
	[an adjective sharing closely same meaening is Apollyon, Destroyer STRONGS#623, Rev. 9:11]

Matthew 2:13	- Herod desired to "DESTROY" the baby
Matthew 8:25	- disciples afriad of drowning, "we PERISH"
Luke 15			- LOST coin, son, lamb
Luke 5:37		- ruined wineskin "bottles shall PERISH"
John 6:27		- "the meat which PERISHETH"
John 17:12		- "the son of PERDITION"
Luke 21:18		- not an hair of your head PERISH.
Acts 8:20		- to simeon "your money PERISH with you"
Matthew 26:8	- perfume spilled, "To what purpose is this WASTE?"

"Gehenna" A Trash Heap, continual burning.

"the valley of the sons of Hinnom", south of Jerusalem, where the idolatrous Jews offered their children in sacrifice to Molech ( 2 Chronicles 28:3 ; 33:6 ; Jeremiah 7:31 ; 19:2-6 ). This valley afterwards became the common receptacle for all the trash of the city. Here the dead bodies of animals and of criminals, and all kinds of filth, were cast and consumed by fire kept always burning. It thus in process of time became the image of the place of everlasting destruction.

Destroyed in the sense of ruined for any useful purpose and not "ANNILIHILATED"

### 4. The Truth

- We cannot receive the revelation of Heaven without accepting the revelation of Hell. It is the same Bible that teaches us both.

- treasurest up unto thyself wrath ... Romans 2:5

| weeping, wailing		| gnashing of teeth 	| torment 
| thirst 				| agony 				| unquenchable fire 
| follows death 		| memory 				| permanent, no escape 
| desire 				| eternal smoke 		|  no rest 
| Gehenna, trash heap	| shut out of heaven	| Suffocating Darkness (cp. Egypt)

## Hell is Necessary , vs. 19-22

What Will I Do About Heaven and Hell?

> "Man came to chapel to hear the music and when the preacher began he put his fingers in his ears. At some point, a fly began to irritate the man and he removed one of his fingers to swat the fly. At the same moment, the preacher quoted, 'he that hath ears to hear let him hear.'"

19 There was a certain rich man, which was clothed in purple and fine linen, and fared sumptuously every day:
20 And there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, which was laid at his gate, full of sores,
21 And desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table: moreover the dogs came and licked his sores.
22 And it came to pass, that the beggar died, and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom: the rich man also died, and was buried;

## A Just Consquence

> Jeremiah 25:14 &mdash; For many nations and great kings shall serve themselves of them also: and I will recompense them **according to their deeds**, and according to the works of their own hands.

The Devil's Lie: Genesis 3:4 ... Ye shall not surely die:

- What would be the proper consequence of sin? Many live as though there is no consequence for sin. No one is getting away with anything If not hell, what would be a just consequence?

- What did Jesus die to save us from? Hell (deliverance, rescue,saved)

- Death 					Romans 6:23; Ezekiel 18:20; Genesis 3
- Corruption 				Galatians 6:8 (reap what you sow)
- Death Spread 				Romans 5:12
- Unquenchable Fire 		Mark 9:43; Jude 7
- God's Face Hidden			Isaiah 59:2
- Utter Darkness     		2 Peter 2:4
- Fall Short of God's glory Romans 3:23

## A Just Motivation

- Behold both Goodness and Severity of God

> Romans 11:22 &mdash; Behold therefore the goodness and severity of God: on them which fell, severity; but toward thee, goodness, if thou continue in his goodness: otherwise thou also shalt be cut off.

- Noah Moved with Fear

> Hebrews 11:7 &mdash; By faith Noah, being warned of God of things not seen as yet, moved with fear, prepared an ark to the saving of his house; by the which he condemned the world, and became heir of the righteousness which is by faith.

- Beginning of Wisdom

> Proverbs 9:10 &mdash; The fear of the LORD is the beginning of wisdom: and the knowledge of the holy is understanding.

- By the fear of the LORD men depart from evil

> Proverbs 16:6 By mercy and truth iniquity is purged: and by the fear of the LORD men depart from evil.

- Save with Fear

> Jude 20 But ye, beloved, building up yourselves on your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Ghost, 21 Keep yourselves in the love of God, looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life. 22 And of some have compassion, making a difference: 23 And others save with fear, pulling them out of the fire; hating even the garment spotted by the flesh.

- Don't be reluctant to discipline sin in our children. Teach them that sin has immense consequence.

## Hell is Not for You, vs. 23-31

 being in torments, and seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom.
24 And he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his finger in water, and cool my tongue; for I am tormented in this flame.
25 But Abraham said, Son, remember that thou in thy lifetime receivedst thy good things, and likewise Lazarus evil things: but now he is comforted, and thou art tormented.
26 And beside all this, between us and you there is a great gulf fixed: so that they which would pass from hence to you cannot; neither can they pass to us, that would come from thence.
27 Then he said, I pray thee therefore, father, that thou wouldest send him to my father's house:
28 For I have five brethren; that he may testify unto them, lest they also come into this place of torment.
29 Abraham saith unto him, They have Moses and the prophets; let them hear them.
30 And he said, Nay, father Abraham: but if one went unto them from the dead, they will repent.
31 And he said unto him, If they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded, though one rose from the dead.

- A Child of Hell is one that is DESERVING of Hell (Judas: his own place, Acts 1:25)

- Do not Come Here!

> Luke 16:28 &mdash; For I have five brethren; that he may testify unto them, lest they also come into this place of torment.

- Give Warning: Escape Hell!

> Luke 14:23 &mdash; That MY House May be Filled

## Verses

> Deuteronomy 4:24 &mdash; For the LORD thy God is a consuming fire, even a jealous God.

> Deuteronomy 32:2 &mdash; fire is kindled in my anger ... burn unto the lowest hell (Matthew 3:12 unquenchable fire)

> 2 Samuel 22:6 &mdash; sorrows of Hell compassed me

> Job 26:6 &mdash; hell is naked before Him

> Psalm 9:17 &mdash; wicked turned into hell

> Psalm 16:10 &mdash; not leave my soul in hell (Acts 2:27)

> Psalm 139:8 &mdash; my bed in hell 

> Isaiah 30:33 &mdash; Tophet is ordained of old (brimstone)

> Isaiah 66:24 &mdash; 24 ... their worm shall not die, neither shall their fire be quenched [Undying Worm and Unquenchable Fire ]

> Jeremiah 4:4 &mdash; ... My wrath will go forth like fire And burn with none to quench it...

> Ezekiel 32:27 &mdash; gone down to hell

> Daniel 12:2 &mdash;  And many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt. [Everlasting Contempt]

> Habakkuk 2:7 &mdash; enlargeth his desire "as hell" (cannot be satisfied)

> Nahum 1:6 &mdash; ... Who can stand before his indignation? and who can abide in the fierceness of his anger? his fury is poured out like fire, and the rocks are thrown down by him.

> Malachi 3:2 &mdash; But who may abide the day of his coming? and who shall stand when he appeareth? for he is like a refiner's fire, and like fullers' soap:

> Matthew 5:22 &mdash; In Danger of Hell Fire (who is?) (Jesus is a hell fire preacher)

> Matthew 5:29,30 &mdash; body cast into hell

> Matthew 10:28 &mdash; destroy in Hell

> Matthew 13:42 &mdash; And shall cast them into a furnace of fire: there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth.

> Matthew 18:8,9 &mdash; rather than having two hands or two feet to be cast into everlasting fire ... than having two eyes to be cast into hell fire.

> Matthew 23:15 &mdash; two-fold sons of hell

> Matthew 25:30 &mdash; outer darkness, weeping and gnashing of teeth

> Matthew 25:41 &mdash; everlasting fire

> Matthew 25:46 &mdash; And these shall go away into everlasting punishment: but the righteous into life eternal.

> Matthew 26:24 &mdash; better not born b/c consequences

> Mark 9:44 &mdash; Where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched.

> Luke 12:5 &mdash; power to cast into Hell

> Luke 16:19-31 &mdash; in hell lift up his eyes

> Acts 1:25 &mdash; ... Judas by transgression fell, that he might go to his own place.

> 2 Thessalonians 1:9 &mdash; Who shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord, and from the glory of his power;

> 2 Peter 2:4 &mdash; angels that sinned...cast them down to hell ... chains of darkness, to be reserved unto judgment;

> Jude 7 &mdash; ... the vengeance of eternal fire

> Jude 13 &mdash; ... to whom is reserved the blackness of darkness for ever.

> Revelation 2:11 not hurt of the second death

> Revelation 6:8 &mdash; hell followeth pale horse (death)

> Revelation 14:9-11 &mdash; punishment for those who wear the mark of the beast (others suggest this punishment is "on earth")

> Revelation 19:20 The Beast, False Prophet -  ... were cast alive into a lake of fire burning with brimstone.

> Revelation 20:10 The Devil -  ... was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone, where the beast and the false prophet are, and shall be tormented day and night for ever and ever.

> Revelation 20:14 Death and Hell  ... were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death. [1 Cor. 15:26]

> Revelation 20:15 Whosoever not found in the Book of Life -  ... was cast into the lake of fire.

> Revelation 21:8 &mdash; But the fearful, and unbelieving, and the abominable, and murderers, and whoremongers, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and all liars, shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone: which is the second death.

- **Lake of Fire** - The Second Death

> Revelation 2:11 ... not hurt of the second death

- The Beast, False Prophet - Revelation 19:20 ... were cast alive into a lake of fire burning with brimstone.

- The Devil - Revelation 20:10 ... was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone, where the beast and the false prophet are, and shall be tormented day and night for ever and ever.

- Death and Hell - Revelation 20:14 ... were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death. [1 Cor. 15:26]

- Whosoever not found in the Book of Life - Revelation 20:15 ... was cast into the lake of fire.

> Revelation 21:8 &mdash; But the fearful, and unbelieving, and the abominable, and murderers, and whoremongers, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and all liars, shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone: which is the second death.
