# An Unbroken Work

TEXT: Romans 8:14; 2 Chronicles 20

> 2 Chronicles 20:26&mdash;And on the fourth day they assembled themselves in the valley of Berachah; for there they blessed the LORD: therefore the name of the same place was called, The valley of Berachah, unto this day.

<!-- -->

> 2 Chronicles 20:37&mdash;Then Eliezer the son of Dodavah of Mareshah prophesied against Jehoshaphat, saying, Because thou hast joined thyself with Ahaziah, the LORD hath broken thy works. And the ships were broken, that they were not able to go to Tarshish

## INTRODUCTION

A New position: IN CHRIST! I have Been Received into a new Family - Born Into The Family of God - not all are God's children - We are a Part of Something Great - A Great Work - The Best Work!

Frustration - Incomplete - or "Broken Up Effort" (Some work should be broken)

"The Church Sign"

The Work of the Spirit is continuous!

### The Spirit Gives Guidance v. 14

> Romans 8:14&mdash;For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. 

#### Led into Purity

The only way to become pure within is to follow Christ. (Read 2 Corinthians 6)

> 2 Corinthians 6:1&mdash; We then, as workers together with him, beseech you also that ye receive not the grace of God in vain.

Who I am in the eyes of God is dependant on what Christ has done for me. We use what He gives us to become what He has called us to be.

#### Led into a Perfect Walk

A church that is half in and half out is the product of the flesh and not allowing the Spirit of God to lead.

##### Jehoshaphat

We can learn alot from Jehoshaphat in 2 Chronicles 20.

>  2 Chronicles 20:3-4&mdash;And Jehoshaphat feared, and set himself to seek the Lord, and proclaimed a fast throughout all Judah. 4 And Judah gathered themselves together, to ask help of the Lord: even out of all the cities of Judah they came to seek the Lord.

The King prayed and all Judah stood before the Lord.

> 2 Chronicles 20:13&mdash;And all Judah stood before the Lord, with their little ones, their wives, and their children.

The Spirit of God came upon Jahaziel and he spoke to Judah.

> 2 Chronicles 20:15&mdash;And he said, Hearken ye, all Judah, and ye inhabitants of Jerusalem, and thou king Jehoshaphat, Thus saith the Lord unto you, Be not afraid nor dismayed by reason of this great multitude; for the battle is not yours, but God’s.

<!-- -->

> 2 Chronicles 20:26&mdash; ¶And on the fourth day they assembled themselves in the valley of Berachah; for there they blessed the Lord: therefore the name of the same place was called, The valley of Berachah, unto this day.*n11

Berachah is the "Valley of Blessings ("blessing" is "Berakhah" in Hebrew).

> 2 Chronicles 20:32-33&mdash; And he walked in the way of Asa his father, and departed not from it, doing that which was right in the sight of the Lord.  33 Howbeit the high places were not taken away: for as yet the people had not prepared their hearts unto the God of their fathers.

Jehoshaphat joined himself in league with a sinner.

> 35 ¶And after this did Jehoshaphat king of Judah join himself with Ahaziah king of Israel, who did very wickedly: 36 And he joined himself with him to make ships to go to Tarshish: and they made the ships in Ezion–geber. 37 Then Eliezer the son of Dodavah of Mareshah prophesied against Jehoshaphat, saying, Because thou hast joined thyself with Ahaziah, the Lord hath broken thy works. And the ships were broken, that they were not able to go to Tarshish. 

##### Jesus

> Hebrews 10:7&mdash;Then said I, Lo, I come (in the volume of the book it is written of me,) to do thy will, O God.

John 14:31; 12:49; Matthew 21:4; Philippians 2:8; Matthew 12:50

To lead people without Godly guidance is to lead them astray. Living out our faith in obedience to Christ will lead others to life!

I must allow God to help me with my problems so that I may help others.

The change Christ works in me glorifies God. The glory the Believer receives is the glory of God revelated in us.

> "Our very life is a gift from God to us! How I use it my gift to God." -- Sister Cummings

As our Father, He leads us many ways. His very leading causes us to mature.

How would you know if you were out of the will of God?

God speaks to us in so many ways. STILL,SMALL VOICE, GENTLE, KIND and STRONG, REBUKE.

