Take Care How You Build
TEXT: 1 Corinthians 3:9-17

> 1 Corinthians 3:9-17&mdash; For we are labourers together with God: ye are God's husbandry, ye are God's building. 10 According to the grace of God which is given unto me, as a wise masterbuilder, I have laid the foundation, and another buildeth thereon. But let every man **take heed how he buildeth thereupon**. 11 ¶ For other foundation can no man lay than that is laid, which is Jesus Christ. 12 Now if any man build upon this foundation gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, stubble; 13 Every man's work shall be made manifest: for the day shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire; and the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. 14 If any man's work abide which he hath built thereupon, he shall receive a reward. 15 If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss: but he himself shall be saved; yet so as by fire. 16 ¶ Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you? 17 If any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy; for the temple of God is holy, which temple ye are.

## INTRODUCTION

Judges 1:22-26 Conquering Canaan and City Building, building a home

Behold, beware, take care

## The Purpose of the Building

### Who Is it For? God

> 1 Corinthians 3:16-17&mdash; Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you? :17 If any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy; for the temple of God is holy, which temple ye are.

1Co 3:9 For we are labourers together with God: ye are God's husbandry, **ye are God's building**.

**Your Life's Work is your life**. One life, what are you building?

### Why Does God Need a House?

The question is backwards, our PURPOSE is to fellowship with God.

## The Foundation of the Building

Christ is the foundation

What does it mean that Christ is the foundation?
 --- Start from Here.

- Christ's Laid down and Resurrected Life is initial groundwork that must always be laid.
- An active relationship Christ cannot be substituted in the building of a LIFE for God.
- The preacher, the church, the organization is NEVER to be substituted as the primary BASE for this building. The role of the preacher or even the church is as the **MINiSTER of ONE CHRIST**.

Be sure your rock is truly JESUS!

## The Construction of the Building

The foundation having been laid, our concern should be how we develop the further structure.

### Build Up

Building Good not Just Avoiding Bad

Is it true, if it wasn't for the devil, the preacher wouldn't have a job? No.

### Quality Materials

Judges 1:22-26 Another Luz
How You Get It Matters - Traitor vs Honesty

- Mainly: Doctrines are the building blocks of this building. 

gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, stubble;

What do you believe? It **does matter** what you believe!

### Not Looking Back

Embrace the newness of life in Christ Jesus!

Judges 1:22-26 Bethel or Luz ?

> Galatians 2:18 For if I build again the things which I destroyed, I make myself a transgressor.

> ILLUSTRATION: "I put her down five miles ago."

>Do not say, "Why were the former days better than these?" You do not move ahead by constantly looking in a rear view mirror. The past is a rudder to guide you, not an anchor to drag you. We must learn from the past but not live in the past.--Warren Wiersbe