# For Love's Sake

>  **Philemon 1:9** Yet for love's sake I rather beseech thee, being such an one as Paul the aged, and now also a prisoner of Jesus Christ.

Philemon 8:-18

## My Jesus I Love Thee

My Jesus, I love Thee, I know Thou art mine;
For Thee all the follies of sin I resign;
My gracious Redeemer, my Savior art Thou;
If ever I loved Thee, my Jesus, 'tis now.

I love Thee because Thou hast first loved me,
And purchased my pardon on Calvary's tree;
I love Thee for wearing the thorns on Thy brow;
If ever I loved Thee, my Jesus, 'tis now.

I'll love Thee in life, I will love Thee in death,
And praise Thee as long as Thou lendest me breath;
And say when the death dew lies cold on my brow,
If ever I loved Thee, my Jesus, 'tis now.

In mansions of glory and endless delight,
I'll ever adore Thee in heaven so bright;
I'll sing with the glittering crown on my brow,
If ever I loved Thee, my Jesus, 'tis now.

William Featherston, wrote at age 16

## I. Vs. 6 "Communication": 

> Philemon 6&mdash;  That the communication of thy faith may become effectual by the acknowledging of every good thing which is in you in Christ Jesus.

- partnership, i.e. (literally) participation,  communicate(-ation), communion, (contri-)distribution, fellowship. EQUAL PARTNERS
- 

## v.8 "I have Much authority", v.9. "for loves sake"



'On account of my love for thee, I entreat thee'

Phm 1:8 ¶ Wherefore, though I might be much bold in Christ to enjoin thee that which is convenient,
 9 Yet for love's sake I rather beseech thee, being such an one as Paul the aged, and now also a prisoner of Jesus Christ.

## A Runaway Slave -- Onesimus

 10 I beseech thee for my son Onesimus, whom I have begotten in my bonds:
 11 Which in time past was to thee unprofitable, but now profitable to thee and to me:
 12 Whom I have sent again: thou therefore receive him, that is, mine own bowels:
 13 Whom I would have retained with me, that in thy stead he might have ministered unto me in the bonds of the gospel:
 14 But without thy mind would I do nothing; that thy benefit should not be as it were of necessity, but willingly.
 15 For perhaps he therefore departed for a season, that thou shouldest receive him for ever;
 16 Not now as a servant, but above a servant, a brother beloved, specially to me, but how much more unto thee, both in the flesh, and in the Lord?
 17 If thou count me therefore a partner, receive him as myself.
 18 If he hath wronged thee, or oweth thee ought, put that on mine account;
 19 I Paul have written it with mine own hand, I will repay it: albeit I do not say to thee how thou owest unto me even thine own self besides.

## Conclusion

>  Revelation 2:4 Nevertheless I have somewhat against thee, because thou hast left thy first love.

reconciled to god and to each other