# The Invitation

> Isaiah 55:1-3 &mdash; Ho, every one that thirsteth, come ye to the waters, and he that hath no money; come ye, buy, and eat; yea, come, buy wine and milk without money and without price. 2 Wherefore do ye spend money for that which is not bread? and your labour for that which satisfieth not? hearken diligently unto me, and eat ye that which is good, and let your soul delight itself in fatness. 3 Incline your ear, and come unto me: hear, and your soul shall live; and I will make an everlasting covenant with you, even the sure mercies of David.

## Diverse Invitations

1. Noah preached perhaps 120 years "Come into the Ark".
2. 2 Samuel 16:7 **An Invitation to Arrogance and Revenge** (shimei cursing and throwing stones at David, but david says leave him alone.)
3. Isaac to Jacob "Come and Kiss me my son", **an invitation to come clean**
4. Unbelief an fear appear to be an invitation themselves to trouble ... Job 3:25 "the think I feared cometh" ... Inviting disaster?
5. **Leave All for a New Life** ... Genesis 24 "Rebekah will you go with this man?"
6. Matthew 14:29  (to peter to walk on water) "Come"
7. John 1:46 Philip to Nathaneal "Come and See" (How simple an invitation)
8. Mark 15:30 to Jesus "Come down and save thyself"

## Reasons for not Accepting

- **Delay** "If you tarry till your better, you will never come at all. ... Blissful seats of Heaven..."
- **INCONVENIENCE** 1 Cor. 16:12 Paul desired Appollos to come, but Appollos was able, but perhaps will when it is more convenient.
- **ALONE** Exodus 24:2 "Moses ALONE shall come."
- **UNKNOWN** Noah's invitation involved things that had "never before been".
- **WORTHINESS** ME? (Moses at the fiery bush)
- **THE INVITER** Who is doign the inviting

## The Invitation is To Everyone that Thirsteth, v. 1

> Ho, every one that thirsteth,

- The Qualification is the Needy knowing His Need.
- Curiosity, Interest, Willingness

## The Invitation is to Come
- to the waters and buy and eat
- to buy wine and milk 

> Matthew 11:28 "Come unto me"; Hebrews 4:16 "let us come boldy"; 2 Samuel 16:7

> Revelation 22:17  And the Spirit and the bride say, Come. And let him that heareth say, Come. And let him that is athirst come. And whosoever will, let him take the water of life freely.

- This chapter displays the: fulness, freeness, excellence, 
   and everlasting nature of the **blessings of the Gospel**.
- WATER, WINE, MILK 
    -  Psalm 19:8 "The statutes of the LORD are right, rejoicing the heart..." 
    -  The Law of God, the Word of God, the Spirit of God, Truth

## The Invitation is Profitable

> v. 2 Wherefore do ye spend money for that which is not bread? and your labour for that which satisfieth not?

- The Invitation is to "Buy" Without Money
- The reasoning: Why spend money and labor for that which does not satisfy nor profit you?

## The Invitation is Come to God and Listen

- BUY, EAT, DRINK, LISTEN
- Hear and your sould shall live
- I will make an everlasting covenant with you.
- Draw nigh to God

