<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Calibre Quick Start Guide</title>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  <style type="text/css">
/*<![CDATA[*/

  @page { margin-bottom: 5.000000pt; margin-top: 5.000000pt; }
  /*]]>*/
  </style>
</head>

<body>
  
  <h1>The Silver Cup</h1>
<p>TEXT: I Peter 2:2,9; Genesis 44:1-12 </p>
<blockquote>
<p>1 Peter 2:2,9 -- As newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the word, that ye may grow thereby: [pure] 9 But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, an holy nation, a peculiar people; that ye should shew forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvellous light:</p>
</blockquote>
<p>God wants to make us OVERCOMERS who bear the PROOF OF HIS INFLUENCE.</p>
<h2>I. Joseph Teaches us About Jesus Christ</h2>
<p>(longed for son, firstborn, sold by his brethren for pieces of silver, His birth inspired faith, tested, falsely accused, his own brethren sought to kill Him, After He suffered He rose to a throne, HE OVERCAME HIS DIFFICULTIES)</p>
<h2>II. The Steward Teaches us About the Holy Ghost</h2>
<p>(The Holy Ghost takes the things of Christ and makes them the Believer's.)</p>
<blockquote>
<p>John 16:13-14 -- Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he will guide you into all truth: for he shall not speak of himself; but whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak: and he will shew you things to come. 14 He shall glorify me: for he shall receive of mine, and shall shew it unto you.</p>
<p>Genesis 43:23a And he said, Peace be to you, fear not: your God, and the God of your father, hath given you treasure in your sacks:... [storehouse, hidden riches]</p>
</blockquote>
<h3>A. All that the Steward puts in their sacks ARE GIFTS. (Their MONEY is returned to them. Only Qualification was BIRTHRIGHT--His brethren!)</h3>
<h3>B. Each is Given AS MUCH AS THEY CAN CARRY.</h3>
<h2>III. The Sacks Teach Us About the Spiritual Experience of the Christian.</h2>
<blockquote>
<p>Genesis 44:1 And he commanded the steward of his house, saying, Fill the men's sacks with food, as much as they can carry, and put every man's money in his sack's mouth. (I Cor. 6:19 Know ye not your body is the temple...)</p>
</blockquote>
<h2>IV. The Silver Cup Teaches Us About the Influence of Christ through the  ministry of the Spirit on the Christian -- GIFTS and FRUIT.</h2>
<h2>V. Benjamin Teaches Us About the Christian Who Inherits All that Christ Has Provided. He is an OVERCOMER that OVERCOMES as Christ did.</h2>
<h4>It is the Responsibility of the Christian to Seek Earnestly the Best Gift.</h4>
<blockquote>
<p>1 Corinthians 12:31a But covet earnestly the best gifts:...</p>
</blockquote>
<h4>2. What is the best gift? Salvation, Faith, Deliverance, Wisdom, Prophecy = The BEST GIFT is the one you need right now!</h4>
<blockquote>
<p>Hebrews 6:1,2 -- Therefore leaving the principles of the doctrine of Christ, let us go on unto perfection; not laying again the foundation of repentance from dead works, and of faith toward God, 2 Of the doctrine of baptisms, and of laying on of hands, and of resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment.</p>
<p>Hebrews 6:19-20 CHRIST -- The Forerunner entered beyond the HOLY PLACE into the HOLIEST OF HOLIES.</p>
</blockquote>
<h2>VI. The Search</h2>
<p>Search Will Be Made and God Will Reward the Overcomer--Those WHO INHERIT All Christ has provided. He will be looking for that SILVER CUP that HE PUT THERE!</p>


  
</body>
</html>
