<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" standalone="no"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>The Body: Evil or Un-Redeemed?</title>
  <link href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  <style type="text/css">
/*<![CDATA[*/
  @page { margin-bottom: 5.000000pt; margin-top: 5.000000pt; }
  /*]]>*/
  </style>
</head>
<body>

<h1>The Body: Evil or Un-Redeemed?</h1>

<blockquote><span class="bRef">Romans 8:23</span>And not only they, but ourselves
also, which have the firstfruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within
ourselves, waiting for the adoption, to wit, the redemption of our body.</blockquote>

<h2>THEME</h2>
<p>It is vital that we understand our Body and its needs in endeavoring to live Christ like. Ignoring or treating it only as an ENEMY not to be closely examined is a great error. God made you. When Christ died his atonement was for both SOUL and BODY.</p>

<h2>I. The Body of Flesh</h2>

<p>Wonderfully Made</p>

<blockquote><span class="bRef">Ps 139:14</span>I will praise thee; for I am fearfully and wonderfully made: marvellous are thy works; and <u>that my soul knoweth right well</u>.</blockquote>

<p><b>FRAIL</b></p>

<p style='margin-bottom:0in;margin-bottom:.0001pt'><b>Ps 73:26</b>
My flesh and my heart faileth: but God is the strength of my heart, and my
portion for ever.</p>

<p style='margin-left:.75in;text-indent:-.25in'>Leviticus is filled with "purification of the flesh". It is
intensley VULNERABLE and not invincible.</p>

<p style='margin-left:.75in;text-indent:-.25in'><span
style='font-family:Wingdings'>n<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span>3,3,3,3--IN ANY EXTREME CONDITION you can"t survive: 3 minutes
without air, (serious brain damage likely), 3 hours without shelter, 3 days
without water, 3 weeks without food. (survivalist maxim)</p>

<p  style='margin-left:1.25in;text-indent:-.25in'><span
style='font-family:"Courier New"'>o<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span>Its appetites and dependancies...<b><u> Ps 63:1</u></b>   Ps 63:1  
&lt;&lt;A Psalm of David, when he was in the wilderness of Judah.&gt;&gt; O
God, thou art my God; early will I seek thee: my soul thirsteth for thee, my
flesh longeth for thee in a dry and thirsty land, where no water is; <b><u>Ps
84:2</u></b> My soul longeth, yea, even fainteth for the courts of the LORD: my
heart and my flesh crieth out for the living God.</p>

<p  style='margin-left:.75in;text-indent:-.25in'><span
style='font-family:Wingdings'>n<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span>There are at 100,000+ human diseases and scientists boast they
have been able to erradicate a sum total of 2! </p>

<p  style='margin-left:.75in;text-indent:-.25in'><span
style='font-family:Wingdings'>n<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span></span>(Some argue 1 disease = "toxemia") Our body is dependant on LIFE
from many things to live. </p>

<p><b>CONNECTION OF THE HEART AND THE BODY</b></p>

<p style='margin-bottom:0in;margin-bottom:.0001pt'><b><u>Pr
14:30</u></b>   A sound heart is the life of the flesh: but envy the rottenness
of the bones.</p>

<p style='margin-bottom:0in;margin-bottom:.0001pt'>------ we
feel &quot;sick to our stomachs&quot; or have an &quot;aching heart&quot; is
because our feelings can be so powerful, they can sometimes cause a physical
reaction in the body.</p>

<p style='margin-top:0in;margin-right:0in;margin-bottom:0in;
margin-left:.5in;margin-bottom:.0001pt;text-indent:-.5in'>------sound or
HEALING heart</p>

<p style='margin-top:0in;margin-right:0in;margin-bottom:0in;
margin-left:.5in;margin-bottom:.0001pt;text-indent:-.5in'>----emotions are
powerful and must be governed:</p>

<p  style='text-indent:0in'>Though is its healthy to FEEL, Don"t Dump Emotions on Others</p>

<p  style='text-indent:0in'>Listen to Our Body (What is it telling you?) (Don"t have to obey
it, but this is key to a sense of authenticity and being genuine.)</p>

<p  style='text-indent:0in'>Don"t underestimate the power of your need to Connect (with God,
others)</p>

<p  style='text-indent:0in'>Don"t live to please others (Firstly living to honor God and in
so doing learning to understand how and why he made you YOU.)</p>

<p>The reverse connection is true. The body is revealing of the
more abstract parts of us...fear, nervousness, anxiety can be evidenced in
sweeting, quickened heart rate and pacing (not staying still).</p>

<h2 style='margin-left:0in;text-indent:0in'>II.<span style='font:7.0pt "Times New Roman"'>
</span>The Body of Sin</h2>

<p><b>We have one physical body, but it is susceptible to both
NATURAL and PHYSICAL influences.</b></p>

<p><b>CORRUPTION OF THE BODY BY SIN</b></p>

<p>Ro 8:10 And if Christ be in you, the body is dead because of sin; but the Spirit is life because of righteousness.</p>

<p>It as well has its own appetites and develops dependancies.</p>

<p style='margin-left:.25in;text-indent:-.25in'><b>2Ti 2:22</b>
  <i>Flee also youthful lusts: but follow righteousness, faith, charity, peace,
with them that call on the Lord out of a pure heart.</i></p>

<p><b>GOVERNING THE BODY BY PRINCIPLE</b></p>

<p>--Ro 8:13 For if ye live after the flesh, ye shall die: but
if ye through the Spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live.</p>
<ul>
<li>To Live After -- to be ruled by</li>

<li>Our Body must be Governed by Principle, or
the Passions of our Body will master us.</li>

<li><b>!!!!Necessity!!!! </b>a NEW MASTER
other than SELF. (Through the Spirit)</li>

<li>MORTIFY the deeds of the Body... put to
death, crucify, end. HOW</li>
</ul>


<p style='margin-top:0in;margin-right:0in;margin-bottom:0in;
margin-left:1.0in;margin-bottom:.0001pt;text-indent:-.5in'>+ <b><u>Ro 8:5</u></b>
For they that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh; but they
that are after the Spirit the things of the Spirit.</p>

<p style='margin-top:0in;margin-right:0in;margin-bottom:0in;
margin-left:1.0in;margin-bottom:.0001pt;text-indent:-.5in'>+ <b><u>Ro 8:6</u></b>
For to be carnally minded is death; but to be spiritually minded is life and
peace.</p>

<p><b><u>CHRIST"S BLOOD IS EFFECTIVE IN REDEEMING EVEN THIS
BODY.</u></b> (Can we please God while living in this physical body?)</p>

<p style='margin-top:0in;margin-right:0in;margin-bottom:0in;
margin-left:.5in;margin-bottom:.0001pt;text-indent:-.5in'><b>1Co 6:20</b> For
ye are bought with a price: therefore glorify God in your body, and in your
spirit, which are God's.</p>

<p style='margin-top:0in;margin-right:0in;margin-bottom:0in;
margin-left:.5in;margin-bottom:.0001pt;text-indent:-.5in'><b>Tit 2:12</b>
Teaching us that, denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should live
soberly, righteously, and godly, in this present world;
</p>

<h1>HANDOUT: Amazing facts about the human body:</h1>
<ol>
<li>Considering all the tissues and cells in your
body, 25 million new cells are being produced each second. That's a little less
than the population of Canada - every second !</li>

<li>Nerve Impulses travel at over 250 mph).</li>

<li>A sneeze generates a wind of 100 mph, and a
cough moves out at 60 mph</li>

<li>Our blood is on a 60,000-mile journey per day.</li>

<li>Our eyes can distinguish up to one million
colour surfaces and take in more information than the largest telescope known
to man.</li>

<li>Our lungs inhale over two million litres of air
every day, without even thinking. They are large enough to cover a tennis
court.</li>

<li>When we touch something, we send a message to
our brain at 124 mph</li>

<li>We exercise at least 30 muscles when we smile.</li>

<li>We are about 70 percent water.</li>

<li>Our nose is our personal air-conditioning
system: it warms cold air, cools hot air and filters impurities.</li>

<li>In one square inch of our hand we have nine
feet of blood vessels, 600 pain sensors, 9000 nerve endings, 36 heat sensors
and 75 pressure sensors.</li>

<li>We have copper, zinc, cobalt, calcium,
manganese, phosphates, nickel and silicon in our bodies.</li>

<li>It is believed that the main purpose of
eyebrows is to keep sweat out of the eyes.</li>

<li>There are more living organisms on the skin of a single
human being than there are human beings on the surface of the earth.</li>

<li>When you blush, your stomach lining also reddens.</li>
</ol>
</body>

</html>