# At Home

"home" 54 verses

= family + house, the center, dwelling place

Opportunity for Change

Judges 1:22-26 And the house of Joseph, they also went up against Bethel: and the LORD was with them. 23 And the house of Joseph sent to descry Bethel. (Now the name of the city before was **Luz**.) 24 And the spies saw a man come forth out of the city, and they said unto him, Shew us, we pray thee, the entrance into the city, and we will shew thee mercy. 25 And when he shewed them the entrance into the city, they smote the city with the edge of the sword; but they let go the man and all his family. 26 And the man went into the land of the Hittites, and built a city, and called the name thereof **Luz**: which is the name thereof unto this day.

The Story of Luz

DEFINITION: 3870 "(Luz signifies an almond, almond or hazel tree Gen. 30:37) as growing there"; also separation; departure;

DICTIONARY: The ancient name of a part at least of Bethel, Ge 28:19; Joh 16:2; 18:13; afterwards given to a smaller place founded by a refugee from Bethel, Jg 1:26.  See Bethel,  Jg 1:26.  See BETHEL.

LUZ was the original name, but changed to BETHEL (house of God, Gen. 28:19).

Was at Luz/Bethel God appeared to Jacob (Gen. 28:19; 48:3)

**Matthew Henry**: "...in the name of it preserved the ancient name of his native city, Luz, an almond-tree, preferring this before its new name, which carried religion in it, Bethel--the house of God. "

What Will Its Name Be?

It is probable that luz denotes the wild almond, while shaked denotes the cultivated variety.

It is amazing to see beautiful almond trees blossoming all over Israel every winter. They are the first tree to blossom and yet the last to bear fruit.

ALMOND/TO WATCH:
> Jeremiah 1:11 &mdash; Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, Jeremiah, what seest thou? And I said, I see a rod of an almond tree. 12 Then said the LORD unto me, Thou hast well seen: for I will hasten my word to perform it. [almond also translated "to watch" a play on words here] [Jeremiah 44:27 watch for evil and not for good]

Interruption

Traitor /
He was a traitor to his country, and he was accessary to the destruction of the lives and property of his fellow citizens, which he most sinfully betrayed, in order to save his own. According to the rules and laws of war, the children of Judah might avail themselves of such men and their information; but this does not lessen, on the side of this traitor, the turpitude of the action.

How You Get It Matters

The Man - Us
The City - The Sum of Our Life's Work

He is creating a HOME for his family.
He did not love the Israelite, he FEARED them. To the extant, he betrayed his own country. (Shew us, we pray thee, the entrance into the city,)

Afterward fled to the land of the Hittites (possibly Arabia). In this wilderness, highly probably there were not ALMOND TREES.

There were Several Different Canaanite Strategies in regards to Israel:
- Fight Back when Attacked
- Ignore them, they'll go away
- Help Them and Hope for Mercy

The Home Built By God
The Home I Use to Know

> STILL CARRYING: "One day, two monks were walking through the countryside. They were on their way to another village to help bring in the crops. As they walked, they spied an old woman sitting at the edge of a river. She was upset because there was no bridge, and she could not get across on her own. The first monk kindly offered, "We will carry you across if you would like."  "Thank you," she said gratefully, accepting their help.  So the two men joined hands, lifted her between them and carried her across the river. When they got to the other side, they set her down, and she went on her way. -- After they had walked another mile or so, the second monk began to complain. "Look at my clothes," he said. "They are filthy from carrying that woman across the river. And my back still hurts from lifting her. I can feel it getting stiff." The first monk just smiled and nodded his head. -- A few more miles up the road, the second monk griped again, "My back is hurting me so badly, and it is all because we had to carry that silly woman across the river! I cannot go any farther because of the pain." The first monk looked down at his partner, now lying on the ground, moaning. "Have you wondered why I am not complaining?" he asked. "Your back hurts because **you are still carrying the woman**. But I set her down five miles ago.""

-------------------

>Do not say, "Why were the former days better than these?" You do not move ahead by constantly looking in a rear view mirror. The past is a rudder to guide you, not an anchor to drag you. We must learn from the past but not live in the past.--Warren Wiersbe

--------------------


Building Good not Just Avoiding Bad

Is it true, if it wasn't for the devil, the preacher wouldn't have a job?
No.
----------------------

Your Life's Work

--------------------------

Building God a House
TEXT: 1 Corinthians 3:9-17

> 1 Corinthians 3:9-17&mdash; For we are labourers together with God: ye are God's husbandry, ye are God's building. 10 According to the grace of God which is given unto me, as a wise masterbuilder, I have laid the foundation, and another buildeth thereon. But let every man **take heed how he buildeth thereupon**. 11 ¶ For other foundation can no man lay than that is laid, which is Jesus Christ. 12 Now if any man build upon this foundation gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, stubble; 13 Every man's work shall be made manifest: for the day shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire; and the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. 14 If any man's work abide which he hath built thereupon, he shall receive a reward. 15 If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss: but he himself shall be saved; yet so as by fire. 16 ¶ Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you? 17 If any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy; for the temple of God is holy, which temple ye are.


 Ga 2:18 For if I build again the things which I destroyed, I make myself a transgressor.

Start from Here.