#Man's Need for God and God's Need for Man
text: James 4:1-10, vs. 7

With more frequent violence in militant Islam and battle lines drawn over doctrinal differences, religion is increasingly being blamed as 

- "the main source of hatred in the world". 
- "taking us back to middle ages"
- humanist chaplain at Harvard University wrote "Good without God"
- Neruroscientist Sam Harris in his "The End of Faith" it is not merely religious extremism that is the greatest problem confronting civilization, but it is rather faith itself.

I won't try to defend religion so much tonight as combat the most dangerous inference of these statement....that, for whatever reasons, man does not NEED God.

But not only does man severly need God, but God also in another sense needs man.

##2. Man's Need for God

###Man is Needy (In Time of Need)
>Heb 4:16 Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find grace to help in time of need.

How often do we face circumstances too much for us? Where can you run to?

###Man Needs a Physician
>Matthew 9:12 But when Jesus heard that, he said unto them, They that be whole need not a physician, but they that are sick.

- Mental Illness
- Youth Criminality
- Militant Religions
- The World is Sick and Humanism can't fix it

###God is the Supplier
>Philippians 4:19 But my God shall supply all your need according to his riches in glory by Christ Jesus.

##3. God's Need for Man

Why would an eternal God need anybody?

>Matthew 5:16 Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and **glorify your Father** which is in heaven.

God's need is born not out of a shortcoming in the Divine God, but out of His LOVE for His creation. 

###God willingly yokes up with the repentant.

>Mt 11:29 Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls.

###He Has Born Our Need
>John 4:4 ¶ And he must needs go through Samaria.

###The Donkey
>Matthew 21:3 And if any man say ought unto you, ye shall say, The Lord hath need of them; and straightway he will send them.

###Daily Prepare to be Useful to God

>Isa 43:10 **Ye are my witnesses**, saith the LORD, and my servant whom I have chosen: that ye may know and believe me, and understand that I am he: before me there was no God formed, neither shall there be after me.

illustrations in Scripture:

1. Clay in the Potters Hand
>Isa 64:8 But now, O LORD, thou art our father; we are the clay, and thou our potter; and we all are the work of thy hand.

2. A Trumpet to Sound Forth a Certain Sound
>1Co 14:8,9 For if the trumpet give an uncertain sound, who shall prepare himself to the battle? 9 So likewise ye, except ye utter by the tongue words easy to be understood, how shall it be known what is spoken? for ye shall speak into the air.

3. A Nail in a Sure Place
> Isa 22:23 And I will fasten him as a nail in a sure place; and he shall be for a glorious throne to his father's house.

4. A Light in a Dark Place
>Mt 5:14 Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid.
