# Living By Faith

> "... just shall live by his faith ..." [H0530] Habakkuk 2:4

> Romans 1:17 For therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith: as it is written, The just shall live by faith.

## What Does a Life Without Faith Look Like?

Loren Eiseley:...

"Man is the Cosmic Orphan. He is the only creature in the universe who asks, "Why?" Other animals have instincts to guide them, but man has learned to ask questions. "Who am I?" man asks. "Why am I here? Where am I going?" Since the Enlightenment, when **he threw off the shackles of religion**, man has tried to answer these questions without reference to God. But **the answers that came back were not exhilarating, but dark and terrible**. 

- "You are the accidental by-product of nature, a result of matter plus time plus chance. 
- There is no reason for your existence. 
- All you face is death."

Life without God, that is Faith in God, leads only to a grave. (wicked and good alike)

> DEFINITION "absurd": wildly unreasonable, illogical, or inappropriate, preposterous.

Life without Faith in God, concludes with death. No matter what happens in the mean time, eventually you will cease to exist.

We are prisoners who await our execution. 
Having no higher purpose, significance or value.

Advances in sciences like medicine...no permanent value because the universe is DOOMED. Life is absurd. We work and sacrifice to accomplish things that will not deter the outcome -- and ever expanding universe that will eventually just cease to exist with no memory or proof it had ever existed.

A life without faith in God, cannot meaningfully answer our greatest questions: Why Am I here? What is the Meaning and purpose of my life? AT best we can agree to a level of "SELF DELUSION"...let's PRETEND it all has meaning (evening though we know it doesn't) and fool ourselves.

## What Does the Life of Faith Look Like?

Biblical Christianity therefore provides the two conditions necessary for a meaningful, valuable, and purposeful life for man: God and immortality. Because of this, we can live consistently and happily.

Read more: http://www.reasonablefaith.org/the-absurdity-of-life-without-god#ixzz3Y54rswMv

Hebrews 11:

1. v.4 Abel offered a more excellent sacrifice

**The favor of God is what gives any WORK permanent value.**

2. v.5 Enoch was translated

**How horrible the world is... Enoch escaped it even bypassing the grave by faith.**

3. v.7 Noah Prepared an Ark and Became heir of Righteousness

**In the face of bad NEWS, there's always a PLAN and therefor a DESIGNER.**

> **Romans 8:28** And we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose.

4. v.8 Abraham journeyed not knowing where to

By faith we access to an eternal strength to move forward even into the unknown with CONFIDENCE.

**ILLUSTRATION POEM:**

I know not, but God knows; 
Oh, blessed rest from fear! 
All my unfolding days 
To Him are plain and clear.

Each anxious, puzzled "Why?" 
From doubt or dread that grows, 
Finds answer in this thought; 
I know not, but He knows.

I cannot, but God can; 
Oh, balm for all my care! 
The burden that I drop 
His hand will lift and bear,

Though eagle pinions tire -- 
I walk where once I ran -- 
This is my strength, to know 
I cannot, but God can.

I see not, but God sees;
Oh, all-sufficient light! 
My dark and hidden way 
To Him is always bright.

My strained and peering eyes 
May close in restful ease, 
And I in peace may sleep; 
I see not, but He sees.

by Annie Johnson Flint

5. v.9 Abraham sojourned in the Land of Promise
6. v.17 Abraham offered Isaac
7. v.20 Isaac Blessed Jacob and Isaac Prophetically
8. v.21 Jacob Blessed both sons of Joseph
9. v.22 Joseph gave commandment concerning his bones (God will bring us out someday)
10. v.23 Moses was hid three months
11. v.24 Moses refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter
12. v.27 Moses forsook Egypt
13. v.29 Israel passed through the Red Sea
14. v.30 Walls of Jericho Fell
15. v.31 Rahab perished not

## Faith Word Study

### Pistis

Faith (4102/pistis) is always received from God, and never generated by us.

Ro 12:3: "For through the grace given to me I say to everyone among you not to think more highly of himself than he ought to think; but to think so as to have sound judgment, as God has allotted to each a measure of faith (4102/pistis)

A.	#1: A Personal Belief, Mental Acceptance & Acknowledgement Of God's Existence:
B.	#2: A conduct or work inspired by the compete surrender to mental acceptance:
C.	#3: A trusting or trustworthiness: (pistis)
D.	#4: The System Of Doctrine And Morality Peculiar To Christianity:

## Phrases

### emuwn - h0525 (5 verses)

"... in Whom is no faith ..." Deuteronomy 32:20
"... but a faithful ambassador is health ..."  Proverbs 13:17
"... a faithful witness ..."  Proverbs 14:5
"... a faithful man..." Proverbs 20:6
"... which keepeth the truth may enter in ..."  Isaiah 26:2

### emuwnah - H0530 (49 verses)

"... his hands were steady ..." Exodus 17:12
"... God of truth and without iniquity ..." Deuteronomy 32:4 
"... his faithfulness and his righteousness ..." 1 Samuel 26:23 
"... they dealt faithfully ..." 2 Kings 12:15
"... ordain in their set office ..." 1 Chronicles 9:22
"... his works are done in truth ..." Psalm 33:4
"... just shall live by his faith ..." [H0530] Habakkuk 2:4

<!--
Resources:

- http://biblehub.com/greek/4102.htm

-->

-------------------

Add to your faith
2Pe 1:5 ¶ And beside this, giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue; and to virtue knowledge;

Work of Faith

Power of Faith

# The Life of Faith

> "... just shall live by his faith ..." [H0530] Habakkuk 2:4

> Romans 1:17 For therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith: as it is written, The just shall live by faith.



## What Does the Life of Faith Look Like?

Acts 15:9 "purifying their hearts by faith"
Acts 26:18 "sanctified by faith"
Romans 1:17 "live by faith" (Gal. 3:11; Heb. 10:38)
Romans 3:22 "the righteousness of God which is by faith" (Phil. 3:9)
Romans 3:28 "justified by faith" (Romans 3:30; 5:1; Gal. 3:24)
Romans 5:2 "access (to God) by faith"
Romans 11:20 "thou standest by faith" (2 Cor. 1:24)
2 Corinthians 5:7 "we walk by faith"
Galatians 3:26 "are the children of God by faith"
Galatians 5:5 "wait for the hope of righteousness by faith"
Ephesians 3:17 "christ may dwell in your hearts by faith"
Hebrews 4:2 united by faith