{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\deftab720{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil MS Sans Serif;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\fswiss\fprq2 System;}{\f3\fnil Times New Roman;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;}
\deflang1033\pard\plain\f3\fs20 Title: Being Ready
\par 
\par Text: Luke 12:20,40
\par 
\par Being ready also for the coming of the Son of Man." He has admonished us He is coming. He has given many promises to help us to understand and for Israel to understand spiritual things and of His coming. Israel was that fool because their heart was set on things and not on God. Set your affection on things above and not on the things on the earth.
\par 
\par Where are our hearts? Where are our emotions?
\par 
\par Jesus' flesh in the Garden was weak, but His spirit was ready, willing. We must always sense the weakness of our flesh. It is more important for our spirit be fed than our bodies be fed. If you were never to eat again and your soul was right with God you will make it into eternal life. We must see our hearts set on the Lord so that we won't miss what God has for us.
\par 
\par He was a fool in verse 20 because he was thinking about things and not people. We must be concerned about others. Do I have any takers of this title? (fool)
\par 
\par Verse 40, Be ye ready, also. God had already dealt with them before in giving them understanding and insight. Verse 41--there is a question. Peter didn't realize just who the Lord was talking to. Peter was one to speak up in a crowd when he had a question. We need to know first what he is talking about and that will help us to respond correctly and know who He is talking to.
\par 
\par  Luke 12:20 "Thou Fool" He was very productive in seeing progress, but he become a fool because his interest was for himself and not for God. Romans 1:21, "They knew God, they glorified Him not as God...become fools" They knew God and they chose to refuse, to the point they were not thankful. The Bible says they didn't love truth and they loved darkness rather than light choosing to love evil because their deeds were evil. God's call is a call that He loves people desires none to perish.
\par 
\par If the light in you be turned to darkness, how great is that darkness. God is blessing us, but He is blessing us for the purpose of glorifying Himself and His work in the earth. God treated Israel in mercy and love showing them truth, but Israel treated God, knowing Him as fools do.
\par 
\par Phil. 3:3 "For we are the circumsicion..." We cut off pride, selfishness Ephesians 6:6--AND BEING men pleasers we cut off. We need the people God has placed over us, but our hope is in God. Cut away that which hinders your worship. God wants to bring healing and development in you but you can't produce fruit without the life of Jesus flowing in you. We must be obedient for obedience's reward and not men's applause. 
\par 
\par Let Jesus in. He comes in as it were with a sharp knife cutting away sin. ALL our confidence is in God. God has somehting for us to hear and receive. Be ye ready, also. God has spoken to you and he is speaking again. He returns in His patience and mercy. Peter feared questioned and wondered--is this for all? Luke 12:42--Jesus is looking for someone to LISTEN and DO FAITHFULLY and KEEP doing it. I Cor. 4:2--We are \plain\f3\fs20\ul required \plain\f3\fs20 to faithful. We are stewards of the mysteries of God. Is God speaking to ALL? God will speak to all, but do all hear and really listen? If you are faithful God will give you more, speak to you more.
\par 
\par Isreal was not looking for a suffering Savior, but for a reigning king. Luke 12:40--as He cursed the fig tree, he cursed the man "thou fool" Psalm 14:1--The fool
\par 
\par Thiest--one that  believes in God\tab \tab (add 1 letter)\tab Athiest-one that does not believe in God
\par All it takes is to add just a little bit of this world to your heart as a Believer to lose out. There is a place for us to be ready today because the WORD has come to us. Luke 12:3--bypassing the kings the Word came to John in the wilderness. The athiest says there is no God because he does not want to be obedient or responsible to another, but he is a fool desiring his own way.
\par 
\par God is faithful to warn us of problems in this world that surround us. Prov. 14:9--they can do sin and it doesn't even shame them. This is God coming and giving a man another chance...Be ye ready ALSO. Even the thoughts of sin is foolishness. There comes a time when God says enough is enough and a man's soul is required. 
\par 
\par Jesus brought this fact to them to awaken them to where they were at. I Cor. 15:35--many boast in being a 'thinking person'. Leaning on your own understanding will destroy you. We can believe in a resurrection, death is not the last stop for this body. We must understand that. We can also come to know and believe in a translation of the perfect, of His Bride, the READY. I Cor. 4:13--must be understood by revelation of the Holy Ghost, make sure you do. The world will hate you and rejecct you be sure what you believe is RIGHT. It is the devil that comes bringing doubts and questions.
\par 
\par Matthew 7--There is zero thought in this man where he is going to build his house. He was a fool because he had not thoughts as to where he was going to build his house. He did not care if it was on sand he was determined to build his house "HERE." It not only matters how you build your house, but also WHERE you build...make sure you build on the rock. Matthew 7:26-- Are you building? Where are you building your house? What are you building for? Are you ready to build? Are you building on Christ? God has a word to challenge you. Christ comes by "BUILD ON THIS!" "THE rains are coming and this will keep you going strong." The foolish man missed the whole point of building on a solid foundation. What good is it for you know what God wants without KNOWING GOD?  You can't do with will of God on your own. You must have His life, His power, Truth making you.
\par 
\par I Cor. 4:10--\plain\f3\fs20\ul NOW\plain\f3\fs20 , DO I HAVE ANY TAKERS? Are you a fool? There are some God is going to bless and others He is going to curse. Blessing for the faithful and curses for the unfaithful. It is according to your faith. Are you ready to recieve more? Luke 12:35--Peter had asked, "do all men hear, can all hear these things?" The answers is, Yes, if they are faithful. Must be willing to be ridiculed for truth's sake. You will become weak in the flesh, but as you offer yourself to God He will give you strength of spirit to be a "fool" for Christ. Deut. 8,9,11--Israel Preparing for Promised Land. If you build on the WORD you will be blessed, but if not I will curse you. God REQUIRES faithfulness and obedience. Wisdom does not have its end in being a gift that is recieved but it must be used. Yield yourself to the Word of God and reject the thoughts and pressures of the carnal mind. The more I know Him the more He will manifest Himself to me. 
\par 
\par Are you ready? Be READY! Don't  be like those in verse 40, those that missed out on the first watch the first experience. Let us be ready NOW. Without question let us not be as the fool that pays no heed to the Word of God. Let us choose to believe God and be ready. Joel 2:24 (in ch.1 it was a desolate and barren land. When Israel went into captivity His heart was saddened.) Isreal brought the name of God into captivity. Let us not be as those, but let us be as those that are faithful serving a great God that will BRING US OUT OF CAPTIVITY. Let us see those floors FILLED. We must leave deception, pride, anger, at the altar. Until you enter into the experience of the infilling of the Spirit you will not be fruitful. God's promise was, " IN THE LAND, I will bless you." It is in the land and in driving the enemy OUT where fruitfulness is found. People will call you a fool for your effort, but just be faithful for that is what God REQUIRES.
\par 
\par To be ready, we must be faithful and wise.
\par His  Bride has made herself ready. She does what she has been told and keeps doing it. Let us be doing the will of God from the heart.
\par The Holy Ghost fire will burn out the dross that will make us a fool.
\par 
\par \pard\qc\plain\f3\fs20 DO NOT BE A FOOL, RECIEVE FROM JESUS.
\par }
 