# 

Preacher: Rev. Stephen Reynolds, Sr.

Date: April 17, 2016

TEXT: Isaiah 30:15-19

	Isa 30:15 For thus saith the Lord GOD, the Holy One of Israel; In returning and rest shall ye be saved; in quietness and in confidence shall be your strength: and ye would not. 16 But ye said, No; for we will flee upon horses; therefore shall ye flee: and, We will ride upon the swift; therefore shall they that pursue you be swift. 17 One thousand shall flee at the rebuke of one; at the rebuke of five shall ye flee: till ye be left as a beacon upon the top of a mountain, and as an ensign on an hill. 18 And therefore will the LORD wait, that he may be gracious unto you, and therefore will he be exalted, that he may have mercy upon you: for the LORD is a God of judgment: blessed are all they that wait for him. 19 For the people shall dwell in Zion at Jerusalem: thou shalt weep no more: he will be very gracious unto thee at the voice of thy cry; when he shall hear it, he will answer thee.

## Reading the Text:

### v.17 

Left with only a reminder of what once was. 1,000 running from 1&mdash;that is fear! (Compare with those with God's promise that one can with quiet confidence chase a 1,000: Deuteronomy 32:30 ; Joshua 23:10)

### v.18

The Lord is waiting. Waiting for prayer and for the sound of our footsteps returning to Him. Let us hear the Holy Word of God!

## The Word "Wait"

Much is used in the word "wait".

People will often abuse the patience of someone else, but there is none that will wait longer than God. You serve a God that waits patiently.

The phrase "In God's appointed time" is often abused.

God is a God of judgment.

I want to talk about the grace of God. I always want to talk about the grace of God.

&hellip;&hellip;&hellip;..


They didn't want to hear it and deal with the truth of the Word of God. They didn't want to come into anyplace they go to hear the message of the truth. They tried to change the message of the prophet.

&hellip;&hellip;&hellip;..

He was known to be a prophet in Israel. He was young but was known to say what God was saying. We won't be rewarded for how many we get to like us, but did I love in truth? Love even our enemies. Our hearts must be directed by God's love. 

Paul said the more I'm hated the more I love, because he had the nature of Christ in him. We need to partake of his nature and holiness.

vs. 18 God's judgment is holy, just, pure, right, real, happening and is with MERCY. Rich in mercy. So Merciful.

God's judgment in its finality will place those who reject his word and waiting and longsuffering in dealing with them into an eternal judgment. People look at the parts of hell and Isaiah 30 fire and God in these parts of his judgment in the wrong lense. But don't be so quick to judge God and come to quick conclusions of God.

In reality, no man will judge God.

God is not just judging people and leaving them there. His judgment is with mercy and we need God's love in us. 

Sometimes due to ill treatment we tire of patience with them, but God's love is toward their soul.

Many, many will spend a Christless eternity because of no faith.

&hellip;&hellip;&hellip;..

It's our responsibility that know that to do something about it.

God will help you make a right judgment of where someone is it and do something to help them. Not to leave them there. The goal is not a pointed finger of "I warned you, and you didn't listen" but is the opportunity to provide remedy.

&hellip;&hellip;&hellip;..

There is no peace to the wicked. The sinner does not have the peace, joy and love that the Believer experiences in Christ.

Not just keeping 10 commandments, but being so sensitive to the Spirit of God that we do what He says. A character that will turn the other cheek and then turn again and again.

Everyone of us can be prevoked past our own self-control, and that is why we need the nature of Christ. "I only do what I see the Father doing." "With strong cryings and praying"&hellip; If the Son of God found it necessary to pray to keep from failing the will of the Father than we certainly must pray!

v.18 "the Lord is a God of judgment

&hellip;&hellip;&hellip;..

"therefore the Lord will wait"

What is he waiting for? For us to return to Him

> Matthew 11:20 Come unto all ye that labor and are heavy laden. take my yoke up on you and learn of you.

Thee is a promised rest, but we must follow Him to find the rest in our spirit.

> &hellip;In quietness and confidence shall be your strength

&hellip;&hellip;&hellip;..

It shouldn't be that every week/month/year at benchmarks we need to be "getting back to God". Much of there "would not" declaration was the fruit of futility "I cannot". 

v.19 He is looking for a cry of faith.

Not just the tears down our cheek, but it is our faith that God is waiting/listening for.

Much of what God says is a rebuke and men usually don't want to hear rebuke.

&hellip;&hellip;&hellip;..

We need a cry of faith and just renewed self-confidence. 

&hellip;&hellip;&hellip;..


How many true men of faith will fight through the famine?

12:39p

Lord are you hearing my prayer, you said if I would cry, you would answer? He is waiting. If the Lord waits on me then there is something that he is waiting on me for! It does not necessairly have to be gross sin, but something not dealt with yet.

"Help me to understand your will and purpose"

&hellip;&hellip;&hellip;&hellip;&hellip;..

12:41 pm

I was afraid to use it, talk about it for fear of losing it. Luke 19 & Matthew 25 (Similar but different parables)

&hellip;&hellip;&hellip;&hellip;&hellip;..

What is god waiting for? He is waiting to be gracious.

If this generation will misunderstand God's judgment then they definitely will misunderstand his grace.

12:45 pm

&hellip;&hellip;&hellip;&hellip;&hellip;..

Return to God. He is calling you in a way that he has not called you before. Let go of pride and the things of the world.