<!-- NEW DOCUMENT introduction-to-the-book-of-job.md -->
# Introduction to the Book of Job

> Job 23:10 But he knoweth the way that I take: when he hath tried me, I shall come forth as gold.
## The Theme

A Word from God for the last days.

## Chapter Headings:

- Chapter 1: Job Was a Man Who Withstood a Severe Test
- Chapter 2: Voice of the Lord Trying the Hearts of His People	
- Chapter 3: The Trial’s True Cause: Teaching Obedience	
- Chapter 4: Eliphaz’s Answer to Job

## The Writer

The authorship of Job is unkown, but it is most generally believed that Moses wrote the book of Job while among the Midianites. (sources: Adam Clarke) There are many other possible authors including Job himself or his friend Elihu. These last two are logical possibilities as they would best be able to give such detailed accounts of the conversations as eyewitnesses.

## The Style

the majority of Job is written in parallel lines which are indicative of poetry

## Job the Man

Job
1. This noble poem presents to us, in very clear and lively characters, these five things among others:-- 
 
A monument of primitive theology. The first and great principles of the light of nature, on which natural religion is founded, are here, in a warm, and long, and learned dispute, not only taken for granted on all sides and not the least doubt made of them, but by common consent plainly laid down as eternal truths, illustrated and urged as affecting commanding truths. Were ever the being of God, his glorious attributes and perfections, his unsearchable wisdom, his irresistible power, his inconceivable glory, his inflexible justice, and his incontestable sovereignty, discoursed of with more clearness, fulness, reverence, and divine eloquence, than in this book? The creation of the world, and the government of it, are here admirably described, not as matters of nice speculation, but as laying most powerful obligations upon us to fear and serve, to submit to and trust in, our Creator, owner, Lord, and ruler. Moral good and evil, virtue and vice, were never drawn more to the life (the beauty of the one and the deformity of the other) than in this book; nor the inviolable rule of God's judgment more plainly laid down, That happy are the righteous, it shall be well with them; and woe to the wicked, it shall be ill with them. These are not questions of the schools to keep the learned world in action, nor engines of state to keep the unlearned world in awe; no, it appears by this book that they are sacred truths of undoubted certainty, and which all the wise and sober part of mankind have in every age subscribed and submitted to.
It was a truth therefore, before St. Peter perceived it, that in every nation he that fears God and works righteousness is accepted of him, Ac 10:35.