# JOB

## Introduction

The Book of Job is one of the oldest in the Bible. He is thought to have lived around the time of Abraham. Job was wealthy and Godly. He was tried and survived. The book is often reduced to a simple overview such as “A Godly man tried by fire who maintained his integrity” or “a man who lost it all but was given two fold because he held to God”. A closer look will reveal that Job addresses issues much beyond these. It is one of the only Old Testament books to mention Satan, it explores the relationship between God and Satan, God and man, and man and Satan as well as the relationship of good and evil. It draws boundaries on what can and cannot happen to a Godly person. It makes us consider the depth of the character of God and even question his goodness and sovereignty. In the end it brings the reader to a sobering view of themselves, and while Job is rescued from his trial the reader is left left wrestling in his mind. The Book of Job is not for the faint of heart but it rewards the careful reader with hours of Godly reflection sending us back to the scriptures to find the answers.
Pitfalls: The Book of Job has a few pitfalls that will keep us from understanding its deepest messages. We must start by naming some of them so we do not get off track as we study.

1. The Book is not about wealth. The wealth that Job has at the beginning and the end are seasons of grace and God was not required to give either. They display God’s affection for Job but they must take a back seat in our study. If the whole subject of wealth were removed the central theme would remain intact. Remember Job himself never once cried over the cattle.
2. Job is not a place we go to study didactic text in search of doctrine. The narrative is an honest representation of the dialog of Job and his friends. To dig for doctrine in the oratory will lead us down the wrong road. We should rather step back and identity the overall movements that are taking place.
3. Don’t give up. The people are a bit long-winded and it is easy to lose focus if we get down in the weeds.
4. God does not change. The account causes such strong feelings of injustice at times that we begin to make excuses for Gods actions or allow God’s attributes to shift to make events easier to swallow.
