## The trial continues (chapter 2)

As if the current losses are not enough Satan asks for one more torture to place on Job in hopes of making him crack. At this point it hurts to hear Satan ask for this and it hurts for God to allow it. Our reaction reveals that we usually have a man centered view of life rather than a God centered view. If God is good then how can he allow these things to happen to Job. If we stand on the Biblical truth that God is good then we must believe that there is a greater purpose for his actions when they appear hurtful. The problem is we try to find a greater purpose for his actions that benefit Job and in our own trials we look for a greater purpose that ultimately suits us. All this thinking is man centered. It is possible that we must suffer for God to receive sufficient glory and honor? It is possible that the best overall outcome includes our suffering? This is taught clearly in the Bible: Philippians 1,29 (For unto you it is given in the behalf of Christ, not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake;). Job forces us to realize that the word “good” used as an attribute of God must mean something different then what is convenient or pleasing to us as men. God centered thinking places man low enough to be used by God at his will for his glory to produce the best possible outcome. Practically speaking the God centered Christian life is the pursuit of God in such a way that we desire be changed by him for his purpose and glory. The man centered Christian life is that by works and prayer we change the will of God so that we benefit from his goodness in the way that is most pleasing to us. The latter is also the goal of all pagan religions and is why Idolatry is the primary sin of the whole Bible. We do not like God so we change him. 

Chapter 2 concludes with seven days of silence. Jobs body is covered in boils, he has resisted bad advice from his wife, and three of his friends have come to comfort and morn with him. Seven days with no words! The following chapters will prove that in those seven days Job and his friends did plenty of thinking. Each have their own questions and answers. 