## The conclusion (chapters 38-42)

We are ready for a rescue. We are tired of the words that change nothing, we are tired of Job’s condition and we are tired of wondering how God is going to keep his goodness intact while he explains to Job his perfect will for him. Then we read on and words hit us like a wrecking ball because none of our expectations ore met. 
Vs 1 Then the Lord answered Job out of the whirlwind, and said,
Vs 2 Who is this that darkeneth counsel by words without knowledge?
Vs 3 Gird up now thy loins like a man; for I will demand of thee, and answer thou me.
Vs 4 Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth? declare, if thou hast understanding.
Vs 5 Who hath laid the measures thereof, if thou knowest? or who hath stretched the line upon it?
Vs 6 Whereupon are the foundations thereof fastened? or who laid the corner stone thereof;
Who is this?! It’s Job, your faithful servant, surely you know who he is. The question is not “who are you?” it’s “who do you think you are?”
for I will demand of thee, and answer thou me. Since you seem to know so much let me ask you some questions.
In two statements God has reduced Job to rubble. It’s not what we expect but by claiming righteousness and wisdom Job has encroached on Gods glory. He has trespassed into His place. Before we can peruse true righteousness and wisdom we must first be taught humility. This may be the most painful place in the whole book. 
 
Why the questions? They initially come across as a statement of qualification. If you can answer any of these questions then I will answer yours. It is a response to Job’s request for an audience with God. I think the Lord is saying “if you would like to speak to me as if we are on equal terms then prove you are”. Central theme “Job is not worthy of an answer from God.” All knowledge of God is a gift, all answers and revelations are gifts of grace. We feel so entitled to an explanation and can suffer quietly as long as we know how long, how bad, and for what purpose we are suffering. He did not reveal it to Job and will not likely reveal it to us. If we knew the purpose we would change our behavior and the purpose would be lost.    

What are the questions? They begin with creation and move to the natural world. They speak of weather and animals and are filled with questions that Job has not asked or even thought of. Most importantly he cannot answer one of them. Central theme “If Job cannot answer these questions he would not be able to understand why even if God told him.” Also the use of questions from creation seems to say to Job “only if you had been here from the beginning could you understand the purpose”. Likewise we cannot know the full reason for our trials, it is foolish to think we are worthy of an answer, and foolish to think we could understand even if we were told. Job is a God exalting, man humbling book.

Final point. When we struggle in life we wrestle with all the questions that come out in this book. When we read the bible we often do the same. We can trace it all back to that one tree in the garden that was not like any other tree. If God knew what Adam and Eve would do why did he put the tree there in the first place? Firstly it was the opportunity to serve him in a special way. More importantly the world was created so that God could redeem from it a bride for his son. For that bride to be perfect she must be redeemed. In order to be redeemed she must first fall. The purposes of God are too big for us to understand, let us rejoice that we have been given a part, and never forget that his own Son suffered according to this mater plan. “Not my will but thine be done”