{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\uc1 \deff0\deflang1033\deflangfe1033{\fonttbl{\f0\froman\fcharset0\fprq2{\*\panose 02020603050405020304}Times New Roman;}{\f16\froman\fcharset238\fprq2 Times New Roman CE;}{\f17\froman\fcharset204\fprq2 Times New Roman Cyr;}
{\f19\froman\fcharset161\fprq2 Times New Roman Greek;}{\f20\froman\fcharset162\fprq2 Times New Roman Tur;}{\f21\froman\fcharset186\fprq2 Times New Roman Baltic;}}{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;\red0\green255\blue255;
\red0\green255\blue0;\red255\green0\blue255;\red255\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue128;\red0\green128\blue128;\red0\green128\blue0;\red128\green0\blue128;\red128\green0\blue0;\red128\green128\blue0;
\red128\green128\blue128;\red192\green192\blue192;}{\stylesheet{\widctlpar\adjustright \fs20\cgrid \snext0 Normal;}{\*\cs10 \additive Default Paragraph Font;}}{\info{\title A Controversy in Maine}{\author James R. Reynolds, Jr.}
{\operator James R. Reynolds, Jr.}{\creatim\yr2003\mo5\dy23\hr10\min11}{\revtim\yr2003\mo5\dy23\hr10\min11}{\version2}{\edmins0}{\nofpages1}{\nofwords362}{\nofchars2065}{\*\company Acorn Internationale}{\nofcharsws0}{\vern89}}
\widowctrl\ftnbj\aenddoc\hyphcaps0\viewkind4\viewscale90 \fet0\sectd \linex0\sectdefaultcl {\*\pnseclvl1\pnucrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl2\pnucltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl3
\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta .}}{\*\pnseclvl4\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl5\pndec\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl6\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}
{\*\pnseclvl7\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl8\pnlcltr\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}{\*\pnseclvl9\pnlcrm\pnstart1\pnindent720\pnhang{\pntxtb (}{\pntxta )}}\pard\plain \nowidctlpar\adjustright 
\fs20\cgrid {\fs48\cgrid0 A Controversy in Maine}{\cgrid0 
\par 
\par \tab \tab Did the government have the responsibility to represent both slave and free s
tates? Yes. Should they have sought to establish the truth? Yes. Slavery was the distinguishing factor of politics in the early days of the United States of America. The Senate was divided specifically by pro-slavery and abolitionist sympathizers. In the 
c
hallenge of maintaining balance and building a system where majority opinion should be the ruling factor a law was enacted to try to accomplish this. This law was the Missouri Compromise. Our laws were and are designed by man and ought to represent public
 
opinion. The governments responsibility is not to revolutionize or reform but to provide a structure where the healing that must take place may take place freely, and so the government in the 1820's indeed was responsible to represent both the slave and f
r
ee states. While truth must be exalted and proclaimed, again, the leaders in government differ greatly in loyalties and convictions and each would respond differently as to the right in this cause. Politics in a Republic cannot exist without compromise. I
n
 the government's search for establishing truth it cannot accept one specific view but must receive the views of all the legislators involved, and in order to gain any ground compromises must be made. Timing is the greatest factor to this issue. Nehemiah 
i
n Nehemiah chapter five encouraged the people to simply forgive the debts owed to them and free those they had enslaved because of those debts. This was very early in Israel's reconstruction and this problem appeared to be one that would snowball and ther
e
 could be no healthy growth with this mindset in rule. Nehemiah advised absolute and total liberty for all, but he did not command or demand but with zeal simply beseeched them. In Leviticus 25:10-14, God designed a cycle where every 50 years such people 
w
ere freed and all debts forgiven. Although these involved enslaved people due to their debts they incurred, the principles are similar. Ecclesiastes 3:1 "For everything under Heaven there is a time and a season." Government must represent the people and i
f the people are divided on an issue, if our system works as was designed, than our government ought to be divided over that same issue. This does not prevent advancement or improvements, but secures the possibility of these occurring.
\par 
\par 
\par 
\par }\pard \qc\nowidctlpar\adjustright {\cgrid0 Sources
\par }\pard \nowidctlpar\adjustright {\i\cgrid0 Holy Bible}{\cgrid0 , King James Version.
\par }{\i\cgrid0 Webster\rquote s Family Encyclopedia}{\cgrid0 , New York: Arrow Trading Company, Inc., 1992.
\par }}