Study questions 3: how to teach and gathering lesson materialWhat is the material with which the teacher works? A. Textbooks B. Jokes C. Knowledge D. CreativityC. KnowledgeFill in the blanks. What a man does not <strong>know</strong> he cannot <strong>teach</strong>.What a man does not <strong>know</strong> he cannot <strong>teach</strong>.Answer true or false. Attention is not dependent on interest.False.Fill in the blanks. The language used between the teacher and the learner must be <strong>common to both</strong>.The language used between the teacher and the learner must be <strong>common to both</strong>.Which of the following <strong>is not</strong> part of the law of the lesson? A. Relate to former lessons B. Proceed by gradual steps C. Entertain with jokes D. Illuminate with illustrationC. Entertain with jokesAnswer true or false. The student who knows nothing cannot think.True.Fill in the blanks. The teacher helps students to evaluate new truths and translate them into the <strong>arts</strong> and <strong>skills</strong> of basic daily living.The teacher helps students to evaluate new truths and translate them into the <strong>arts</strong> and <strong>skills</strong> of basic daily living.Answer true or false. True learning is simply repetition.False.Fill in the blanks. Review is an attempt to refocus <strong>facts</strong> and <strong>principles</strong>, which have been learned earlier.Review is an attempt to refocus <strong>facts</strong> and <strong>principles</strong>, which have been learned earlier.Fill in the blanks. Not to review is to <strong>leave teaching incomplete</strong>.Not to review is to <strong>leave teaching incomplete</strong>.From where can we find teaching material? A. The Bible B. A dictionary C. Current sources D. All of the aboveD. All of the aboveFill in the blanks. You will find it difficult to hold the <strong>attention</strong> and <strong>respect</strong> of your classes unless you <strong>master the lesson</strong>.You will find it difficult to hold the <strong>attention</strong> and <strong>respect</strong> of your classes unless you <strong>master the lesson</strong>.Answer true or false. Consideration of future lessons is both practical and essential to the teacher's  success.True.Fill in the blanks. If you are to improve in your effectiveness, you must continue to grow both <strong>spiritually</strong> and <strong>intelectually</strong>.If you are to improve in your effectiveness, you must continue to grow both <strong>spiritually</strong> and <strong>intelectually</strong>.Answer true or false. You must constantly be on the alert for material that will enhance your teaching.True.