The Persistent Widow
Lu 18:1 And he spake a parable unto them to this end, that men ought always to pray, and not to faint; 2 Saying, There was in a city a judge, which feared not God, neither regarded man: 3 And there was a widow in that city; and she came unto him, saying, Avenge me of mine adversary. 4 And he would not for a while: but afterward he said within himself, Though I fear not God, nor regard man; 5 Yet because this widow troubleth me, I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me. 6 And the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge saith. 7 And shall not God avenge his own elect, which cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with them? Lu 18:8 I tell you that he will avenge them speedily. Nevertheless when the Son of man cometh, shall he find faith on the earth?
1. Men ought always to pray and not to faint.
2. We should always pray the prayer of faith persistently.
3. God will avenge His own elect which cry day and night unto Him. 
Lu 18:5 Yet because this widow troubleth me, I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me. upwpiazw hupopiazo, hoop-o-pee-ad'-zo to hit under the eye (buffet or disable an antagonist as a pugilist), (figuratively) to tease or annoy (into compliance), subdue (one's passions):--keep under, weary. 
Power of persistence - continual coming - cry day and night unto Him
Though He bear long with you.
1Ch 16:11 Seek the LORD and his strength, seek his face continually. Jer 29:13 And ye shall seek me, and find me, when ye shall search for me with all your heart. Eph 6:18 Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints; Col 4:2 Continue in prayer, and watch in the same with thanksgiving; 1Th 5:17 Pray without ceasing.
