The Friend who came at midnight
Lu 11:5 And he said unto them, Which of you shall have a friend, and shall go unto him at midnight, and say unto him, Friend, lend me three loaves; 6 For a friend of mine in his journey is come to me, and I have nothing to set before him? 7 And he from within shall answer and say, Trouble me not: the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed; I cannot rise and give thee. 8 I say unto you, Though he will not rise and give him, because he is his friend, yet because of his importunity he will rise and give him as many as he needeth.
11:1 Jesus Christ&apos;s Prayer life Lu 11:1 And it came to pass, that, as he was praying in a certain place, when he ceased, one of his disciples said unto him, Lord, teach us to pray, as John also taught his disciples.
2-4 The Model Prayer Lu 11:2 And he said unto them, When ye pray, say, Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done, as in heaven, so in earth. 3 Give us day by day our daily bread. 4 And forgive us our sins; for we also forgive every one that is indebted to us. And lead us not into temptation; but deliver us from evil. 
5-8 Man's part in prayer
Christ teaches his disciples to pray, and quickens and encourages them to be constant and instant in prayer, Lu 11:1-13. The whole point is that the person who prays must be sincere, fervent, constant, persistent, persevering, and enduring in seeking the face of God for whatever he needs until he gets a word from God and continues to pray until you get just what God says. Lu 11:9 And I say unto you, Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you. 10 For every one that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened.
9.13 God's part in prayer
I. God is most willing to give.
II. God is the source of all good things
Col 4:2 Continue in prayer, and watch in the same with thanksgiving; De 4:29 But if from thence thou shalt seek the LORD thy God, thou shalt find him, if thou seek him with all thy heart and with all thy soul. 1Ch 16:11 Seek the LORD and his strength, seek his face continually. Isa 55:6 Seek ye the LORD while he may be found, call ye upon him while he is near: Jer 29:13 And ye shall seek me, and find me, when ye shall search for me with all your heart. Ps 105:4 Seek the LORD, and his strength: seek his face evermore. Pr 8:17 I love them that love me; and those that seek me early shall find me.
