The Good Samaritan-Luke 10:25-37 Twenty miles of wild, rough, jagged, rock-strewn passage much of the way. It was a favorite for thieves, so much so it was called the Way of Blood. Travelers never should journey there alone but so many do anyway.
Lu 10:25 And, behold, a certain lawyer stood up, and tempted him, saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? Lu 10:29 But he, willing to justify himself, said unto Jesus, And who is my neighbour?
A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho
fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment, and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead.
There came down a certain priest that way: when he saw him, he passed by on the other side.
Likewise a Levite, and he passed by on the other side.
A certain Samaritan, when he saw him, he had compassion on him, 34 And went to him, and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own beast, and brought him to an inn, and took care of him. 35 And on the morrow when he departed, he took out two pence, and gave them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him; and whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again, I will repay thee.
Lu 10:36 Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbour unto him that fell among the thieves? 37 And he said, He that shewed mercy on him. Then said Jesus unto him, Go, and do thou likewise.These are the two questions that could transform the world if men would ask them of the Lord and then heed to His answers.
I. Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? 
II. Who is my neighbour?
The first question stressed what and works. He asked, "What shall I do?" Mt 3:8 Bring forth therefore fruits meet for repentance: Lu 3:8 Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of repentance, and begin not to say within yourselves, We have Abraham to our father: for I say unto you, That God is able of these stones to raise up children unto Abraham Jas 2:20 But wilt thou know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead? 24 Ye see then how that by works a man is justified, and not by faith only. 26 For as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead also. 2Th 1:11 Wherefore also we pray always for you, that our God would count you worthy of this calling, and fulfil all the good pleasure of his goodness, and the work of faith with power: The second question stressed who and responsibility? He now knew who his neighbor was: and it was any man who needed mercy.	 Mt 5:7 Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy.
