     The Unfinished Tower                                                                                  Lu 14:28 For which of you, intending to build a tower, sitteth not down first, and counteth the cost, whether he have sufficient to finish it?                                                                                     29 Lest haply, after he hath laid the foundation, and is not able to finish it, all that behold it begin to mock him,                                                                                                                                30 Saying, This man began to build, and was not able to finish. 
Sit down first and count the cost                       Self-denial
Have you sufficient to finish it?                   Whole-heartedness
≡ God is not glorified in unfinished tasks.
Heb 12:2 Looking unto Jesus the author and finisher of our faith; who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God.                                                                                                                                        Php 1:6 Being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ:        
A False Start                                                        Selfish motive
A False profession                                              half-heartedness                                                                               Mt 7:23 And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you: depart from me, ye that work iniquity.                                                                                                                                  2Ti 2:19 Nevertheless the foundation of God standeth sure, having this seal, The Lord knoweth them that are his. And, Let every one that nameth the name of Christ depart from iniquity.
2Pe 2:20 For if after they have escaped the pollutions of the world through the knowledge of the Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, they are again entangled therein, and overcome, the latter end is worse with them than the beginning.                                                                                    21 For it had been better for them not to have known the way of righteousness, than, after they have known it, to turn from the holy commandment delivered unto them.                           22 But it is happened unto them according to the true proverb, The dog is turned to his own vomit again; and the sow that was washed to her wallowing in the mire.
2Co 3:5 Not that we are sufficient of ourselves to think any thing as of ourselves; but our sufficiency is of God;                                                                                                                                       2Co 12:9 And he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee: for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly therefore will I rather glory in my infirmities, that the power of Christ may rest upon me.                                                                                                               →  Count the cost of not serving the Lord                      Lukewarmness                                                                       Mr 8:36 For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?                                                                                                                                                                  Re 3:17 Because thou sayest…and knowest not that thou art wretched, and miserable and poor, and blind, and naked: 18 I counsel thee to buy of me gold tried in the fire, that thou mayest be rich; and white raiment, that thou mayest be clothed, and that the shame of thy nakedness do not appear; and anoint thine eyes with eyesalve, that thou mayest see.
