The Faithful Servant and the Evil Servant
Luke 12:35-48 Lu 12:35 Let your loins be girded about, and your lights burning; Lu 12:47 And that servant, which knew his lord's will, and prepared not himself, neither did according to his will, shall be beaten with many stripes. 48 But he that knew not, and did commit things worthy of stripes, shall be beaten with few stripes. For unto whomsoever much is given, of him shall be much required: and to whom men have committed much, of him they will ask the more.
Let (be thou) Be Prepared Who you are in the Lord and what you possess in Him. 
&quot;your loins be girded&quot; - Pure hearts prepared by obeying the Truth. 
1Pe 1:13 Wherefore gird up the loins of your mind, be sober, and hope to the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ; 1Pe 1:22 Seeing ye have purified your souls in obeying the truth through the Spirit unto unfeigned love of the brethren, see that ye love one another with a pure heart fervently: Eph 6:14 Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness; Isa 11:5 And righteousness shall be the girdle of his loins, and faithfulness the girdle of his reins.
&quot;your lights burning&quot; - Manifesting the Life of Jesus
2Co 4:10 Always bearing about in the body the dying of the Lord Jesus, that the life also of Jesus might be made manifest in our body. 11 For we which live are alway delivered unto death for Jesus' sake, that the life also of Jesus might be made manifest in our mortal flesh. Mt 5:16 Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven. Joh 5:35 He was a burning and a shining light: and ye were willing for a season to rejoice in his light.
Joh 1:4 In him was life; and the life was the light of men. 17:3 And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent. 1Jo 5:12 He that hath the Son hath life; and he that hath not the Son of God hath not life. Pr 8:35 For whoso findeth me findeth life, and shall obtain favour of the LORD. Joh 5:26 For as the Father hath life in himself; so hath he given to the Son to have life in himself; 1Co 15:45 And so it is written, The first man Adam was made a living soul; the last Adam was made a quickening spirit. Joh 6:63 It is the spirit that quickeneth; the flesh profiteth nothing: the words that I speak unto you, they are spirit, and they are life.
Lu12:41 Then Peter said unto him, Lord speakest thou this parable unto us or even to all? Even to all
Mt 5:15 Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house. Mt 11:28 Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Mt 28:19 Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost: Mr 13:10 And the gospel must first be published among all nations. Mr 13:37 And what I say unto you I say unto all, Watch. Mr 16:15 And he said unto them, Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature. Lu 2:10 And the angel said unto them, Fear not: for, behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. Lu 2:31 Which thou hast prepared before the face of all people; Lu 3:6 And all flesh shall see the salvation of God. Lu 4:40 Now when the sun was setting, all they that had any sick with divers diseases brought them unto him; and he laid his hands on every one of them, and healed them. Lu 6:19 And the whole multitude sought to touch him: for there went virtue out of him, and healed them all. Lu 9:23 And he said to them all, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross daily, and follow me. Lu 13:3 I tell you, Nay: but, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. Lu 13:5 I tell you, Nay: but, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. Lu 24:47 And that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem. Joh 1:7 The same came for a witness, to bear witness of the Light, that all men through him might believe Joh 5:23 That all men should honour the Son, even as they honour the Father. He that honoureth not the Son honoureth not the Father which hath sent him. Joh 5:28 Marvel not at this: for the hour is coming, in the which all that are in the graves shall hear his voice, Ac 10:36 The word which God sent unto the children of Israel, preaching peace by Jesus Christ: (he is Lord of all:) Ac 17:30 And the times of this ignorance God winked at; but now commandeth all men every where to repent: Ac 17:31 Because he hath appointed a day, in the which he will judge the world in righteousness by that man whom he hath ordained; whereof he hath given assurance unto all men, in that he hath raised him from the dead. Ro 3:19 Now we know that what things soever the law saith, it saith to them who are under the law: that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before God Ro 5:18 Therefore as by the offence of one judgment came upon all men to condemnation; even so by the righteousness of one the free gift came upon all men unto justification of life. Ro11:32 For God hath concluded them all in unbelief, that he might have mercy upon all. Ro 15:11 And again, Praise the Lord, all ye Gentiles; and laud him, all ye people. Ro 15:33 Now the God of peace be with you all. Amen. Ro 16:24 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen. Ro 16:26 But now is made manifest, and by the scriptures of the prophets, according to the commandment of the everlasting God, made known to all nations for the obedience of faith: 1Co 15:22 For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. 2Co 3:2 Ye are our epistle written in our hearts, known and read of all men: 2Co 13:14 The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the communion of the Holy Ghost, be with you all. Amen. Eph 1:23 Which is his body, the fulness of him that filleth all in all. Eph 3:9 And to make all men see what is the fellowship of the mystery, which from the beginning of the world hath been hid in God, who created all things by Jesus Christ: Eph 4:6 One God and Father of all, who is above all, and through all, and in you all. Col 3:11 Where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, Barbarian, Scythian, bond nor free: but Christ is all, and in all. 1Th 3:12 And the Lord make you to increase and abound in love one toward another, and toward all men, even as we do toward you: 1Th 5:14 Now we exhort you, brethren, warn them that are unruly, comfort the feebleminded, support the weak, be patient toward all men. 1Th 5:15 See that none render evil for evil unto any man; but ever follow that which is good, both among yourselves, and to all men. 1Ti 2:1 I exhort therefore, that, first of all, supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks, be made for all men; 1Ti 2:4 Who will have all men to be saved, and to come unto the knowledge of the truth. 1Ti 2:6 Who gave himself a ransom for all, to be testified in due time. 1Ti 4:10 For therefore we both labour and suffer reproach, because we trust in the living God, who is the Saviour of all men, specially of those that believe. 1Ti 4:15 Meditate upon these things; give thyself wholly to them; that thy profiting may appear to all. Tit 3:2 To speak evil of no man, to be no brawlers, but gentle, shewing all meekness unto all men. Heb 10:10 By the which will we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. Heb 12:14 Follow peace with all men, and holiness, without which no man shall see the Lord: Heb 13:25 Grace be with you all. Amen Jas 1:5 If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him. 
2Pe 3:9 The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness; but is longsuffering to us-ward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. 
Jude 1:15 To execute judgment upon all, and to convince all that are ungodly among them of all their ungodly deeds which they have ungodly committed, and of all their hard speeches which ungodly sinners have spoken against him. 
Re 22:21 The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
 
WATCHING 
Lu 12:37 Blessed are those servants, whom the lord when he cometh shall find watching: verily I say unto you, that he shall gird himself, and make them to sit down to meat, and will come forth and serve them. Lu 21:28 And when these things begin to come to pass, then look up, and lift up your heads; for your redemption draweth nigh. Lu 21:36 Watch ye therefore, and pray always, that ye may be accounted worthy to escape all these things that shall come to pass, and to stand before the Son of man. Mt 24:43 But know this, that if the goodman of the house had known in what watch the thief would come, he would have watched, and would not have suffered his house to be broken up Mt 25:13 Watch therefore, for ye know neither the day nor the hour wherein the Son of man cometh. Mt 26:38 Then saith he unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death: tarry ye here, and watch with me. Mt 26:40 And he cometh unto the disciples, and findeth them asleep, and saith unto Peter, What, could ye not watch with me one hour? Mt 26:41 Watch and pray, that ye enter not into temptation: the spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. 
 WAITING 
Lu 12:36 And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding; that when he cometh and knocketh, they may open unto him immediately. Ro 8:23 And not only they, but ourselves also, which have the firstfruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves, waiting for the adoption, to wit, the redemption of our body. 1Co 1:7 So that ye come behind in no gift; waiting for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ: Ga 5:5 For we through the Spirit wait for the hope of righteousness by faith. 1Th 1:10 And to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus, which delivered us from the wrath to come. 2Th 3:5 And the Lord direct your hearts into the love of God, and into the patient waiting for Christ. 
 WORKING 
Mr 16:20 And they went forth, and preached every where, the Lord working with them, and confirming the word with signs following. Amen. Eph 1:19 And what is the exceeding greatness of his power to us-ward who believe, according to the working of his mighty power, Php 3:21 Who shall change our vile body, that it may be fashioned like unto his glorious body, according to the working whereby he is able even to subdue all things unto himself. Col 1:29 Whereunto I also labour, striving according to his working, which worketh in me mightily.
 The Evil Servant Lu 12:45 But and if that servant say in his heart, My lord delayeth his coming; and shall begin to beat the menservants and maidens, and to eat and drink, and to be drunken; 46 The lord of that servant will come in a day when he looketh not for him, and at an hour when he is not aware, and will cut him in sunder, and will appoint him his portion with the unbelievers. 47 And that servant, which knew his lord's will, and prepared not himself, neither did according to his will, shall be beaten with many stripes. 48 But he that knew not, and did commit things worthy of stripes, shall be beaten with few stripes. For unto whomsoever much is given, of him shall be much required: and to whom men have committed much, of him they will ask the more. Mt 24:48 But and if that evil servant shall say in his heart, My lord delayeth his coming; 49 And shall begin to smite his fellowservants, and to eat and drink with the drunken; 50 The lord of that servant shall come in a day when he looketh not for him, and in an hour that he is not aware of, 51 And shall cut him asunder, and appoint him his portion with the hypocrites:
The lord of that servant will come ---- When the servant &quot;looketh not for him&quot; 
There was an unfaithful, an evil servant, an unwise steward (manager). He said there was plenty of time and thought the Lord had delayed His coming; and the Lord's return would be a long way off. 
He did not doubt the Lord's return. He knew the Lord was returning, but he didn&apos;t think it would happen so soon. Lk12:40Be ye therefore ready also for the Son of man cometh at an hour when ye think not
he is not aware
The evil servant shall be found by the Lord unaware, caught off guard, unprepared.
will cut him in sunder 
The Lord will cut him off, apart from fellowship, communion, relationship, worship. He shall be cut asunder, cut off from God's presence, condemned to death, cut off from among the living, exiled from eternal life. Ex 32:33 And the LORD said unto Moses, Whosoever hath sinned against me, him will I blot out of my book. Ps 69:28 Let them be blotted out of the book of the living, and not be written with the righteous. 109:13 Let his posterity be cut off; and in the generation following let their name be blotted out. 
The Lord will appoint him his portion with the unbelievers. Re 21:8 But the fearful, and unbelieving, and the abominable, and murderers, and whoremongers, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and all liars, shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone: which is the second death.
